Chapter 25 – Jungle Village
Edward waited patiently for the man to recover himself, which took yet more brow mopping and much mumbling.

"I'm sorry, do forgive my manners," he said eventually, "I should introduce myself, I'm Geangello Shanksworth Merryman, and this is my colleague Mr. Murgatroyd," he pointed behind Edward who turned to look.

Emerging from the base of the mechanical dancer was the dwarf who had been manning the booth. He tugged his waist-coat straight and gave Edward a curt bow.

"As you can see our dancer is nothing more than a Mechanical Turk artfully operated by Mr. Murgatroyd. In the old days we amazed audiences with dancing Mabel and Colonel Clonk over there," he indicated a soldier stood on a box on the other side of the room. "Of course we had a lot more in those days, quite kept our bellies flat eh Mr. Murgatroyd? But these two are all we have left now," Merryman said a note of sadness in his voice.

"Seeing me gave you quite a shock, I should apologise for that," said Edward.

"No no dear boy, quite the opposite, it is I who owe an apology to you. I must confess for a moment I thought I'd seen a ghost, I did, the ghost of an old friend, long dead now, but my how you're the spitting image of him, you are, when we were young and adventurous together. Those were the days eh Mr. Murgatroyd? When we were known as the Fixers, if the League needed anything it was Murgatroyd and Merryman who found it for them, what adventures we had racing across half the world, but those days are long gone," his face saddened as he said this.

"The ticket," said Mr. Murgatroyd gruffly.

"Ah, yes the ticket, most curious, may I enquire as to how you came about possession of such?" asked Merryman.

"I was given it, by the Countess of Wetherby." replied Edward.

"The Countess," chortled Merryman, "The Countess? Really the Countess, you have seen her?"

"I have."

"My, I bet she is a beauty, how we'd like to meet her, a masterful work of engineering she is indeed by all repute."

"So you see it is no coincidence I'm here," said Edward, "I believe now the Countess wants you to aid me."

"Us, help you? Our days of adventuring are over," cried Merryman, once again mopping at his brow, "I don't know of what use Mr. Murgatroyd and I can be now-a-days."

"Well for one thing, might you know the area? We are bound for the Fortress of Eternal Shadows."

"We know Darabat well enough eh? But the fortress, it's nigh on impregnable, I don't know how you might get inside its walls..."

A shot rang out and the sounds of muffled shouting and running footsteps interrupted Merryman. "What on Earth?" he exclaimed.

The three of them peered out of the tent to see what was happening. The fair folk had scattered, hiding in their caravans or fled into the nearby forest. Armed men on horseback rode up firing rifles into the air and encircling Edward's fellow adventurers. With at least twenty guns trained on them, the adventurers waited while a large man in a white turban dismounted his horse. Steadily pointing two large silver pistols at Captain Legate he strode towards them.

"What's this all about then?" Edward heard the Captain ask.

"You know Imperial Agents are not welcome here," the large Indian fellow bellowed, "We should shoot you all where you stand."

"We are not Imperial Agents," replied the Captain, "I would have thought that was obvious."

"And you are incapable of using disguise?" bellowed back the Indian leader, "If your not Agents of the Empire, then who are you and what do you want here?"

"We are headed for Ashcantoor and wish to pass peacefully through," replied Legate firmly.

"Ashcantoor? Then you are friends of that devil Darkmere, all the more reason for us to shoot you."

"Aschantoor may be our destination, but we are no friends of Darkmere," came the reply.

"If you are no friend of the Dark Count, how do you expect to be welcomed at his fortress gate?" the large man laughed at them. "Whoever you are and whatever your purpose you will have little luck. If we do not kill you, then Darkmere certainly will, no one goes south of the Lashak river who isn't either his soldier or his slave."

"Never-the-less, that is our intent," replied the Captain, his voice filled with resolve.

"Your sincerity impresses me, but I'm still not inclined to believe you," the large man replied.

"Who's that?" Edward asked Merryman in a horse whisper.

"That is Jahshalid Kahn, a local warlord. Nothing goes on around Jandaha without his knowledge and permission, he is the biggest thorn in Darkmere's side, but the warlords haven't been into Darabat province since the Groaning Devils appeared," Merryman whispered back.

"Is there anyway we can persuade him to help us?" asked Edward.

Merryman opened his mouth to reply just as an uproar rose from the men outside.

Jahshalid had been circling Captain Legate, his silver pistols firmly fixed on the Captain's heart but now, seeing her chance, Carmine stepped forward and took the large man from behind. Digging a toe into the back of his leg he fell on one knee and she was upon him in an instant, her knife gleaming as she pressed into his throat.

"Tell your men to throw down their weapons," she hissed.

A look of shock had crossed Jahshalid's face when Carmine first brought him down, but now he laughed, a deep bellowing roar, and nodded to his men to do as Carmine said.

"And what do you intend to do now?" Jahshalid asked, "if you kill me there will be nothing to stop my men from killing you, and if you don't, I will hunt you down and kill you."

"You know young Edward," Merryman said, "it occurs to me that the enemy of my enemy is my friend, and now you have the upper hand, perhaps you can negotiate."

"Then it is time we joined the party," said Edward as he stepped from the tent.

He strode across the dusty ground towards the circle of mounted men and the tableau at their centre, Merryman and Mr. Murgatroyd at his heels.

"Now just who the devil are you?" Captain Legate asked Jahshalid.

"Jahshalid Kahn, mighty warlord of Jandaha," Edward said, as he stepped into the circle, "and I am Edward York also known as Edward Infante and Edward Pretender, leader of the League of the White Rose."

Behind him he heard Merryman draw a sharp intake of breath at this.

Jahshalid laughed, "So you are the boy they are looking for, and his friends, well perhaps we are not enemies after all."

"And who is to say that you are not in league with the Imperial Agents?" asked Edward.

"I think it is time for trust boy," Jahshalid said, "you will not get far without mine, and it would appear that I will not live long without yours."

"Very well," Edward said after a moments thought, "Carmine, if you be so good as to let Mr. Kahn gain his feet."

Carmine released him and stepped back. Edward held out a hand to the man who took it but didn't rise, instead he flipped Edward over onto his back and quick as a flash was standing over him laughing.

Carmine sprang forward her lethal knife held out before her in an assassin's grip, but Edward shook his head at her. Jahshalid now reached down to Edward offering him a hand.

Edward dusted off his jacket while smiling at Jahshalid. "Well now that is all sorted out, perhaps we can plan how we are to get into Ashkantoor," he said.

"Well my impatient friend, there is much we need to discuss before you go rushing into the mouth of the beast. You should bring your locomotive to our camp and we can discuss just how foolish this plan of yours really is."

Returning to Jandaha station the adventurers found their train ready to leave and they climbed aboard accompanied by Jahshalid , Merryman and Mr. Myrgatroyd. As the train moved off Jahshalid's men rode along side through the shady forest.

Several miles down the track Jahshalid's men switched points and the train set off down a branch line leading into thick jungle. Several miles further into the jungle the train came to a halt in a large clearing. The clearing appeared empty at first, but on closer inspection Edward spotted cleverly hidden hideouts in the trees and low huts made from jungle brush which blended completely with their surroundings.

"Welcome to my village. You will come and eat with us," Jahshalid announced, "and I will persuade you to give up your foolish plan and to return to where you belong."

As the sun set, village fires began burning. Soon the delicious smell of jungle fruits and meats being roasted on open fires filled the clearing, and Edward and his friends were invited to sit with Jahshalid, as he presided over the feast, with Edward sat to his right and Shawana, Jahshalid's beautiful young daughter, to his left.

With a wave of his hand the eating and dancing began. Jungle tom-toms beat out a rhythm while melody came from long necked multi-stringed instruments and flutes. The young women of the village danced, Shawana leading them, long veils of silken cloth flowed over their supple limbs as they turned and gyrated to the exotic music.

"My daughter, do you not think she is beautiful?" Jahshalid asked, as they watched the dancing. Edward agreed.

After the dancing Shawana came over laughing and excited, she threw herself down on the blankets next to Edward, her fine bracelets of tiny trinkets tinkling as she moved. She picked up a wooden bowl filled with cherries and began eating them.

"So father, you haven't introduced me to this hansom young adventurer which you brought to our village," Shawana said to her father, her voice light and melodic, her accent distinctly English.

"This is Edward, but do not get to attached to him my daughter, for he is young and foolish and will most likely be dead before the moon rises again," said her father.

"Can I not persuade you from going into Ashcantoor?" asked Shawana, gazing at him with her large brown eyes.

"I have made a promise and I must keep it, much though, now I have met you, I wish I had not," replied Edward.

They were interrupted by Carmine. "While you have been enjoying the local pleasures," she said giving Shawana a hard look, "we have been discussing things and I think Mr. Merryman has a plan."

"If you will excuse me," Edward said to Shawana, who pouted sulkily at him before letting him go.

"If you must," she said.

"Perhaps I should hear this plan also," said Jahshalid.

Mr. Merryman, Mr. Murgatroyd and Captain Legate were sat in hut set a little back from the main village and were talking earnestly over a bottle of the local brew when Edward, Carmine and Jahshalid entered, ducking their heads under the low roof.

"Carmine tells me you have a plan Mr. Merryman," said Edward.

"Call me Gene, dear boy, all my friends do, and yes, I have a plan, of sorts," replied Merryman.

"Years ago Ashcantoor belonged to a local Prince. Then the East India Company arrived under the command of Marshal Storman and they took Ashcantoor after many weeks of siege. Now the strange thing is, though the Prince and his family were in Ashcantoor when it fell, they were never found or captured. It therefore follows dear boy, there must be another way in to the fortress, now if we could only find the secret entrance, we would be half way home, so to speak."

"And I know just where it is," said Jahshalid. "I remember fleeing through the tunnels at Ashcantoor when I was a boy."

"You are the Prince of Ashcantoor?" said Merryman in amazement.

"There is but one problem," replied Jahshalid. "The devil Darkmere has built a factory over the secret entrance."

"But that could be to our advantage," said Merryman.

"And how would that be?" asked Jahshalid.

"We can ride the train right into the factory, and from there used the tunnels," said Merryman. "Don't you see? Hopefully they will think its just another delivery train and we can drive right in."

"It is risky, very risky," replied Jahshalid, "but it just might work."

"Does anyone else have a plan?" asked Edward, looking round the silent faces. "Then it is the best plan we have."

"There will a lot of work for us tomorrow," said Captain Legate, "We should get some sleep and prepare for what is ahead."

The adventurers retired to the carriages on the train and soon the village fell quiet, only the hoots and barks of wild animals in the jungle night broke the silence.

The following morning everyone was up early. Captain Legate and Gene Merryman were talking about how they were to disguise the train.

"We put boarding along the sides of the carriages to make them look like goods wagons," Merryman was saying.

"And paint the engine to make it look older and more beaten up," suggested the Captain.

Murgatroyd leapt down from the observation car and made his way over.

"They are there Mr. Merryman," said Murgatroyd.

"Excellent news. When Mr. Murgatroyd and I were last on this train the observation car was armed with six inch repeater gauss guns, and apparently it still is. Are they in working order Mr. Murgatroyd?"

Murgatroyd grunted, "They'll need testing."

"Very well, we have our tasks, shall we to them?" said Merryman, enthusiastically rolling up his shirt sleeves.

Soon the clearing was filled with the sound of hammering and sawing, and the shouts of men who are coordinating great works, as everyone set about transforming the train.

At lunch time Shawana and a group of girls from the village came to the train with bread and fruits and cool water poured from tall earthenware jars. Shawana held out a brightly decorated cup for Edward to drink from, the over filled vessel splashing clear water over the her fingers as she did so. Edward drank deeply from the cup and when finished she gave him a large juicy peach and bit into another one herself, holding his eye as she licked the dripping juices from her hand.

Edward leaned back and admired their morning's work. With wooden planks nailed up the sides the train looked passably like a goods train. Two short gauss guns muzzles protruded a short way out from the boarded up side of the observation car.

"We are going to test the guns," shouted Merryman.

A good head of steam was built up in the engine, necessary to provide the pressure to powered the weapons. Aboard the train Mr. Murgatroyd positioned himself behind one of the guns. He swivelled it on its three way gantry and took careful aim out into the jungle. He squeezed the trigger and steam screamed from a pressure value, a dull rattle came from an ammunition hopper mounted on top of the gun.

The jungle filled with the sound of hissing bullets, leaves and branches danced and cracked as small steel balls tore through the undergrowth. After a few seconds burst the gun fell silent again. Torn bits of leaf gently floated to the jungle floor, a small tree groaned as it fell to the ground.

"Well they still work Mr. Murgatroyd," said Merryman in a business like tone, "and very effectively so."

As dusk fell they assembled on the train ready for the mission ahead. It was agreed Captain Legate and Chesterton would drive the engine, while Jahshalid's men rode in the accommodation cars, ready to jump out when the order was given.

As the train slowly backed up the line to the points Edward noticed Carmine wearing the same leather assassins' outfit she had worn when they first met on that windy tower in Huston State. The soft black leather clung to her body like a glove while her eyes remained hidden in the shadows of her hood. The carriage filled with a quiet tension, everyone calm, everyone poised and at the ready.

The train came onto the points where the jungle track met the mainline, and once Jahshalid's men had switched them the train moved forward, toward Ashcantoor. They picked up speed and few minutes latter heard the sounds of the Lashak bridge passing beneath them as they entered Darabat Province.
