Chapter 27 – A Lady Rescued
They climbed several flights of stairs before Jahshalid ushered them through a door and into a large ornately decorated chamber. Magnificent marble pillars ran in rows along each side of the room, the floor made from marble so highly polished they could see their reflections in it. Through arched windows placed high up in the walls, the sound of fighting could be heard coming from the fortress courtyard some floors below.

"I can not take you any further," said Jahshalid, "my men need me and the fighting sounds fierce."

"We are grateful for your help this far," Edward replied.

"The way to the towers is on the floor above, just through the far doors and up the stairs," replied Jahshalid indicating tall ornate doors at the far end of the room.

"I should think we have your men to thank for the ease which we have come this far," said Captain Legate, "it looks like they are keeping Darkmere's men occupied."

"Not all of them," a familiar voice rang across the chamber as the doors swung open and Darkmere himself swept in to the room, his long black cloak flowing behind him.

"Lord Darkmere, what an unpleasant surprise," said Lady Carmine.

"Now now my Dear," replied Darkmere, "it should hardly be a surprise to find a man in his own house, besides which, didn't YOU follow ME here?"

"We came to get Lady Emily, we know you have taken her by force," said Carmine.

"Your endearment to your old school chum does you credit, but I shudder to think what the Emperor will have to say about your current company, such a shame, you were a most promising Agent, really one of the best we had, but now you wont even get to be a bridesmaid."

Carmine drew her knife and stepped forward. 

 "Before you get any ideas, I have a little surprise for you," Darkmere flicked his hand and a squad of Imperial troops entered the room and took up position. They were formidable in black uniforms trimmed with golden braid, thigh high leather riding boots and silver helmets which gleamed in the gas-light. Each carried a sabre at the waist and a revolver on the hip.

"I think your adventure ends here my young Pretender," said Darkmere, turning his attention to Edward, "I'm sure your Uncle and your brother will reward me for ridding them of such a troublesome thorn, and as a bonus you have kindly brought the nefarious warlord Jahshalid and his men to the slaughter, a double victory I'm sure you'll agree."

"So you acknowledge that I'm the Infante," said Edward, "as you say, my Uncle will be pleased with you."

A frown passed over Darkmere's face. "Yes, well, a figure of speech Pretender."

"Then I'm sure the Emperor will be rewarding everyone who has rid him of a Pretender this week, I don't suppose the reward for yet another will be so bountiful as you imagine."

"Well we could stand here all day discussing this, or I could just order my men to kill you."

"I offer you the opportunity to hand over the Lady Emily now, and we will leave," said Edward, "but I am betting you want to do this the hard way."

"You will never rescue Lady Emily and you will never take the throne of England," replied Darkmere, beginning to loose his temper. "you will die right here in this room and tomorrow I shall wed Lady Emily on this spot, knowing only hours before the ceremony your blood stained the stones, and by then, even that sign of you will have been washed away forever. You are a jumped up orphan, some rag child, lucky enough to carry but a passing resemblance to the last Emperor, this chance likeness will not take you far, indeed at the moment it is more a curse than a gift. In the unlikely event you leave this room with your life, you will still be hunted, hounded, relentlessly pursued until you are once and for all dispatched."

"I have wasted enough time on a shrimp like you and your motley crew of misfits. Much as I have enjoyed our little chat I need to lead my men against the outlaws at the gates below so I bid you all a farewell," Darkmere bowed then turned on his heels, "Kill them," he ordered as he swept out of the room.

Twenty hands went to their hips as the Imperial troops drew their weapons.

"Take cover behind the pillars," shouted Captain Legate getting a shot off as he dived behind the nearest marble column, an Imperial trooper felled with his unerring shot.

A moment later the chamber was filled with the sound of gun fire as Imperial troops opened fire on the adventurers.

Edward peered round the side of the pillar he, Rob and Carmine were crouched behind. Imperial troops were advancing down the room. Edward fired a couple of shots at them, and more shots came from the Captain's pillar.

"We will not last long here," remarked Carmine calmly checking the rounds in her revolver as another volley of shots came from the other end of the room.

"If we can keep them pinned down for a while they will use all their ammunition," Rob pointed out, "then we can engage them with the blade."

"A fine thought," replied Carmine, "but we are likely to run out of ammunition before them, and even then, they out number us four to one."

A strange scrapping noise came from across the room, Edward couldn't quite see the cause of it, but it seemed to come from the direction of the pillar shielding Ra Chet and Merryman. Suddenly shouts of terror followed by a volley of shots came from the Imperial troops. Edward risked peeking out.

The troops attention was drawn to one side, no longer interested in advancing down the room something had distracted them. Using the moment, Edward cried for the attack and leading the others ran at the troops firing his weapon as he went. Joined by the others several troops fell to their guns as they ran.

Gaining the end of the room Edward saw what distracted them. A whirring spinning mass of brass and steel, two vicious blades extending from his arms, Ra Chet efficiently dispatched one soldier after the next as they fired round after round at him. His blades flicked up and down, the closest soldier's head cleaved cleanly from her shoulders, the next with a blade in his guts.

The final few, seeing they were surrounded and without hope, gave ground and ran off leaving their fallen comrades to their fate.

"We must move quickly," cried Captain Legate, "they will soon return with reinforcements."

"I must to my men," said Jahshalid wiping blood from his sword on the jacket of a dead soldier, and with that he ran from the room in pursuit of the fleeing troops.

Moments later the rest of the adventurers followed him through the doors and up the wide staircase to the battlements above. Now they saw the fighting in the courtyard below. At the foot of the fortress the factory burnt, orange flames licking the saw tooth roofs as clouds of black smoke rose from the conflagration. A flash of bright light from the factory and a moment later the dulled boom of an explosion.

In the courtyard several of the machine beasts had a handful of Jahshalid's men cornered while in the distance several more of the terrifying contraptions could be seen making their way steadily up the road toward the main gates.

Above the adventurers three towers loomed like silent giants mutely judging the humans at their feet.

"But which tower is Emily in?" asked Edward, "it's going to take ages to run up and down all three." Then he remembered something, the golden beetle Professor Van Klees had given him and which he wore as a belt buckle. He unclipped the beetle and checking it to be tightly wound, flicked the settings and held it out on his open hand.

He hoped he had configured the tiny device correctly. It sat a moment doing nothing, then with a shrill buzzing, shot from his hand and rose swiftly up the outside of the first tower. Reaching the window it hovered a moment then fell back, coming to rest on Edward's outstretched palm.

He flick the golden beetle over, and changed its settings, then placed it on a smooth flagstone. The beetle scurried about leaving a trail of ink which quickly built up into an image of the room at the top of the tower. From the illustration the room appeared empty.

Edward wound the beetle again and released it up the second tower. Again the clockwork insect performed its task and returned to Edward. This time the image showed a female figure sitting quietly at a table, her head held in her hands.

"Looks good to me," said Captain Legate.

"I am sure that is Emily," said Carmine looking at the ink on stone drawing.

"Carmine, Rob and I will ascend," declared Edward, "the rest of you stay and guard the exit," with that he rushed up the tower stairs, Lady Carmine and Rob close at his heels.

The tower, the tallest of the three stood a good two hundred feet high, its stairs like stone teeth set into the interior wall leaving a plunging void in the centre which, as they climbed, became ever deeper. The initial pace of two steps at a time soon became one, and their running became a slog of one foot after the next. They past a sloted window every second turn of the stairs from which they could hear, but not see, the fighting in the courtyard.

Eventually they came to the top of the stairs and entered a sparingly furnished room containing only a rough table and two benches. A spilt cup and a half eaten loaf testified to the fact that the guards had left their posts in a hurry.

At the far end of the room an oddly out of place, yet elegant, staircase led to a barred door. The three rushed across the room and up the staircase. With a mighty heave Rob drew back the bolt and flung the door open.

The girl at the table looked up in surprise as the three burst into her chamber. The creamy white skin of her face, her ruby red lips, all framed by locks of golden hair which fell in graceful curves across her shoulders and down to her waist. She wore a simple white wedding dress which left her shoulders bare and flowed down to the floor. She rose quickly, a resolute look on her face, showing neither fear nor welcome.

Carmine stepped towards her and she back away. "Emily, it is me, Lady Carmine," said Carmine.

Lady Emily looked at the figure before her, the taught fighter in tight leather, her face smudged with soot and brick dust and half hidden under a hood.

"Cami? Is that really you?" asked Lady Emily, even in her fright, her voice as soft and sweet as honey.

Carmine threw back her hood and took her friends hands in hers, "Yes, yes, it is I, you do remember me?"

"Cami, oh Cami," cried Lady Emily, "it is you."

"We have come to rescue you, to take you back to England," said Carmine, "We must hurry," she led Emily to the door.

The four began their decent back down the tower, Edward leading the way with Rob bringing up the rear. As they neared the bottom of the tower they heard shouting on the battlements. Reaching the base of the tower Edward looked out. The adventurers were deep in conflict with a squad of East India Company troops who were attempting to take back the battlements.

Only able to fight three a breast, the Captain, Chesterton and Ra Chet were able to hold them off, but only just, Ra Chet's movements were beginning to show the signs of a loosely wound spring.

"We must retreat back the way we came," shouted Edward, "fall back, fall back," and while Rob ran to aid the others in covering their retreat, Edward led Carmine and Emily back the way they had come along the battlements. As they approached the stairs several figures came running up, blocking their way.

It was the remaining Imperial Troops reinforced with East India Company soldiers led by Darkmere, his face clouded with rage and hatred.

"I have had quite enough of you insignificant maggots," spewed Darkmere, "This ends here, now, with your deaths."

He held his hand out to Lady Emily, "Come my dearest, step away from these villains and come to my side for we will be wed before the night is done."

But Lady Emily shook her head, "I will not come with you Vilners. Once you fooled me with your charm and guile, but now I see you for what you really are, a spoilt child who will resort to the lowest tricks to get what he want, no matter what the price."

"Very well Emily, I would have made you a Queen, you would have had a thousand servants and a thousand slaves to rule over, but I see now, I made a mistake in thinking you could ever love me, so have it your way, die here with this scum you call friends."

"I would rather die here with them, than live even one second by your side Vilners."

"Enough," screamed the enraged Darkmere, "Kill them, kill them all."

"Quick, a sword," cried Lady Emily as the soldiers advanced. Carmine produced a second deadly knife and tossed it to Lady Emily who first used it to cut her dress short and slit it up the side for greater freedom of movement, then took a fighting stance.

"And you said fencing lessons were for boys Cami," Lady Emily called out, "now look at you," she laughed as Carmine swept a low kick at the nearest soldier felling him with a boot toe to the ankle bone and in an instant had slit his throat with her blade.

"I see you let your minions fight for you Darkmere," taunted Edward, as he saw the miserable Lord taking cover behind his men. "I see you will never fight your own battles, you are a coward and a rat Sir."

"I'm no such thing," cried Darkmere, pushing one of his own soldiers out the way in his eagerness to get at the Pretender.

Darkmere brought his sword to bare on Edward who threw himself to one side remembering the single shot it was capable off. The lead ball screamed passed his ear and he jumped back to his feet.

"Was that your best shot Darkmere?" said Edward as they crossed swords.

"I graduated top of my fencing class at Cambridge," boasted Darkmere, "what can you have possibly learnt scrabbling around in the factory dirt?" their blades clashed.

There was no doubting Darkmere's proficiency with a sword, his thrusts were powerful and accurate, his stance and foot work graceful and his control excellent. Against Edward's strong but raw skill he clearly had the upper hand.

"I suppose no one would have married you if you had just asked," taunted Edward in the hope of enraging him as he fended of blow after blow from Darkmere's blade.

"Your insults do not bother me peasant, I have the satisfaction of knowing your bloody brains will be spilt over these stones before we are done today."

"I would splash your brains too, if you had any," replied Edward, "in their stead I shall splatter your snot filled head."

Now Edward could feel the red hot rage building up inside Darkmere as his blows became wildly intense, knocking Edward to the ground.

"It will be a fittingly ignoble end for you to die on a peasant's blade," Edward said fending off the follow-through blow.

"That will never happen," screamed Vilner's raising his sword to strike a final deadly blow against his prone adversary. In doing so he left himself wide open and raising his sword Edward fired its single shot.

The blood drained from Darkmere's face as he staggered back a dark red stain growing on his chest. His sword fell on the stones with a clatter as he fell to his knees.

Suddenly the air around them was filled with an eerie whistling sound, chips of stone danced up in the air like water from a wet road during a summer storm. The strange occurrence stopped as suddenly as it had started and a deep shadow fell across the battlements.

Almost all the soldiers on the battlements had been cut down in a hail of lead which had come from the gauss guns mounted on the Valiant's gantry. Further to the east the Gallant flying the colours of the White Rose swung into view, its two five foot cannons fired shells down into the courtyard, smashing the metal monsters which raged below.

Looking up Edward saw Lord Percy, his arm in a sling, waiving down from the gantry.

Captain Legate, Rob and Chesterton finished off the last few soldiers with their blades as ladders and a winch were lowered from the Valiant and the adventurers grabbed on and climbed aboard. The gauss guns fired again covering their escape and the guns of the Gallant continued to pound the ground below until not a single metal beast moved.

With a serene certainty the two airships turned in the air and sailed gracefully away toward the rising moon which hung large and silver in the cloudless black blue sky.
