Chapter 6 – Tewkesbury Docks
Stiff and hungry from their night under a tree, the boys continued their journey south east. The warm morning sun began to ease their muscles, though it did nothing for their stomachs and as the day wore on they settled into the steady, trance like state that had for so long now, become their daily activity. Across the distant fields they saw farm workers begin their daily  chores and gave them a wide birth.

Around mid-morning the boys rode up a gentle rise and reaching the brow of the hill saw Tewkesbury laid out before them. Edward had never seen anything like it. A vast, sprawling town lay before them, stretching off towards the Bristol channel. Even from a distance he could see buildings taller than any he'd seen before, some stood as high as eight stories, but the sight which caught the boy's eyes and filled them with awe and amazement was the Airship Field, which lay to the east of the town.

Tall slender towers of interwoven iron girders stood ready to anchor airships. Two vast curved backed hangars dominated one side of the Field and a small yet elegant building, dwarfed by the hangers, was for passengers to assemble before embarking upon their amazing sky bound voyages. Sitting on Strawberry's firm back they watched the round grey end of an Airship dirigible float gracefully from the closest hanger, a tiny, elegant, boat like, white painted gondola hung beneath the ship's fat bloated gas bag. Across the grass, muted by distance, came the soft whumf whumf of the huge steam engine which powered the airship's propellers.

"That's a Gargantuan class vessel." Rob informed Edward, "capable of crossing the Atlantic all the way to the Americas, or even to China."

The huge airship glided slowly towards a free mooring tower. Several other towers in the field already had smaller airships moored to them, ships bound for the Imperial dominions of Scotland, Ireland and the East Indies, or to allies in Holland and Denmark, or for the colonies in Africa and India.

The boys had stopped briefly to watch the Gargantuan class airship rise majestically up over their heads and sail off in a westerly direction to, they knew not where, though both dreamt of being on such a ship, seeing the world and seeing it from the air.

They could have sat on the hill watching airships all day but, eventually, Rob encouraged Strawberry to walk on toward the town they had travelled so far to see, and the hope of finding Uncle Billy.

Morning was turning to afternoon and the boys reached the outskirts of town. They rode through the streets of Tewkesbury, which at first were just dusty tracks packed by the passage of horse and carriage. These streets were lined with modest dwellings in brick and wood, soon, however the dirt tracks gave way to paved streets and grand houses built of stone, richly appointed squares, shady courtyards and sweeping crescents of town houses. Here the streets were thronging with people, so many people, Edward would not have believed there were this many people in the world, let alone in one single town in England.

The boys pressed on towards the docks. Now the buildings were iron framed brick and timber structures, some places of business, offices, others warehouses. Sandwiched between these, older buildings, public houses, bookshops and bakeries. Barrow boys in flat caps and britches pushed wooden barrows heaped with goods, factory girls in white bonnets and black dresses hurried to their places of employment. Fat merchants in brown derby hats haggled and bartered with each other outside their shops and warehouses. Rich young aristocrats wearing jaunty hats and brightly coloured jackets lounged outside public houses, smoking and chatting, while earnest middle class housewives hung wickerwork baskets on the crooks of their arms and went from baker to butcher and onto the greengrocers to procure their daily needs.

The two boys rode into the town square on Strawberry's broad back. A lady in a dress of bright silks and lace paraded through the market place attended by two serving girls in long black skirts. She carried a Chinese parasol and was preceded by two footmen wearing dark green jackets and shiny black riding boots while a small Yorkshire terrier with a bright red bow in its hair trotted contentedly beside her. Dirt faced children in ragged clothes ran barefoot after her only to be shooed away by the serving maids. Having ordered a footman to acquire her some oranges, the Lady took a moment to exchange a few pleasantries with a passing neighbour. Everywhere was hustle and bustle, everyone had somewhere to go and something to do.

Six red jacketed militiamen marched through the square on their way to the guard post, rifles slung high on their backs. The Constable strutted by, swinging his truncheon, a ready nod for the merchants and aristocrats, and a scowl for the beggars and the unruly. Black jacketed clerks in bowler hats wore stiff white collars and narrow black trousers and tightly laced shoes upon their feet as they trotted hurriedly to and fro between their places of employment and the bank, which stood elegantly presiding over the busy town square, its imposing marble columns and tall heavy doors voicing its importance to one and all.

"Get that old nag out of the way." A barrow boy shouted at Edward and Rob as they sat gaping open mouthed at the scene before them. "Can't yous see there's people trying to get on their business?"

Sliding off Strawberry's broad back Rob led the horse through the crowd and down a quieter side street.

"I wonder how we get to the docks from here?" he mused as yet another barrow boy, his cart piled high with stuffed sacks pushed passed.

"You want the docks?" the boy called over his shoulder, "follow me, you can't miss 'em."

With some difficulty Rob led Strawberry and Edward followed, down the street after the barrow boy and in a moment the ally opened out into a wide avenue which led down to the wide calm waters of the canal. Here the buildings were all loading yards and warehouses with wide entrances, and doors built high up in the walls, each with it's own lifting gantry. Course brown sacks with large black words stencilled on their sides contained weights of sugar or potatoes, vegetables, corn, cloth, coffee and every manner of goods imaginable. These sacks were hoisted up on wooden platforms for storing or lowered down to the waiting barrow boys. Warehousemen in dull brown coats, tallied sacks and boxes, crates and containers of every shape and size, steam carts and horse carts waited patiently to be loaded, everywhere the atmosphere was one of an efficient bustle of things being done. In the distance the whistling of trains could be heard as they pulled into Tewkesbury railway station and the air was full of the strange smells of spices, steam and dust.

"Get out the way." A belligerent steam car driver shouted at the boys as yet again they found themselves unwittingly in someone's path.

"We need to get rid of the horse," said Rob.

"What! old Strawberry?" protested Edward over the noise of the dockside traffic.

"Well she's getting in everyone's way, and were here now, in Tewkesbury," Rob pointed out.

Edward, who had become somewhat attached to the old horse, reluctantly agreed and they led Strawberry into the very next stable yard they came to. Entering through an arched gateway they came to a halt in a straw strewn space with high brick walls. Horse boxes lined the sides of the yard and at one end stood a coach house, its doors open enough to allow the boys a glimpse of the gleaming vehicles within.

"What do you two want?" a tall thin man with a large moustache and even larger sideburns called out as he strode toward them.

"Please Sir, we want to sell our horse," said Edward.

The man narrowed his eyes suspiciously giving both the boys and Strawberry a good look over.

"I see," he said, scratching his unshaven chin. "And just where did you steal this old bag of bones from then eh?"

"We didn't steal her," Edward protested. "Strawberry is our horse, but now we're in Tewkesbury we've no further need of her. What will you give us for her Sir?"

"Strawberry eh," said the coachman approaching the beast and looking her over he felt her legs and looked in her mouth. As was her nature she stood patiently throughout this ordeal.

"I'll give you two pound and not a shilling more," he announced. "That's a weeks wages to you two."

Edward looked to Rob, Strawberry was, by rights, his horse.

"Well what do you think?" asked Edward.

"We don't know if it's a fair price or not, but it's two pounds and we're rid of a burden," replied Rob. "Very well Sir, you have a deal." And so it was that a moment later the boys were back out on the dockside two pounds richer and one horse lighter.

"Least ways we can get some breakfast now," remarked Rob.

They sauntered along the canal watching the longboats chug past on murky green water. Steam barges whistled and horse barge bells rang as boats past each other. Iron framed steam cranes hissed and wheezed as they raised great loads of goods from barge holds and deposited them on the dockside for the waiting merchants.

"well this looks like a good place to start looking for Billy," said Edward. Rob agreed and the boys began by asking everyone they saw if they knew of Billy Badger. They asked dockmen and porters, barrow boys and foremen, washer women and barmaids all without luck. Eventually they found themselves at the end of the docks and began working their way back the way they'd come.

Just as they were beginning to give up any hope of meeting anyone who had even heard of Billy, let alone knew where to find him, they chanced across a sailor smoking a pipe while sat on a goods bale which was all sewn up in a course hessian bag. He wore a blue sailor's beret and blue and white shirt with white cotton britches which reached just below his knee. His unshod feet dangled over the bale and he gazed across the canal waters with a thoughtful look in his eye.

"Billy Badger you say?" he repeated Rob's question slowly and drew on his pipe.

"well now let me see, Billy, Billy, Billy," he stroked his whiskery beard and puffed on his pipe again. "Now that name does seem to ring a bell. Where have I heard it before? Was it the Dog and Duck? or perhaps the Red Lion on the Bristol Road? Now wait a minute I'm sure it will come to me."

"Ah yes," the sailor cried jumping from his bale. "Now I remembers, just follow me young fellow me lads," and with that he trotted off away up the docks with out a backward glance.

"We'd better follow him quick," said Rob, eager for the information the fellow clearly had, and began running after him. Edward was forced to follow.

The sailor didn't run far, he dived into the nearest public house and when the boys caught up with him he was leaning casually on the well worn bar.

"I believe my memory requires a little oiling if its to recall the last known location of Billy Badger," said the sailor with a wide grin on his leathery sea worn face, a grin which showed two or three tobacco stained teeth at the front and one or two gold ones at the back.

"I knew it," said Edward. "It's just a cheep trick to get a free drink out of us."

"Well I'm feeling thirsty myself," mused Rob, "and it couldn't do us harm to invite our new friend to share a drop of ale with us," he added.

Once they were all ensconced in the cosy corner of the pub where the sailor had insisted they sat, and once he had had a good swig from his tankard and slowly wiped the froth from his long moustaches and sighed with satisfaction he said, "I'll tell you where you're most likely to find Billy Badger, it's right here in this pub, the Rose and Crown. He'll be in here any time soon I'll wager, if he's on regular business today."

He looked at the boys then said, "We could while away the time with a game of cards if you like. Do you good fellows know any good cards?" he asked innocently.

Edward and Rob did know cards. While Edward was fairly new to them, Rob had been playing with the Badger Gang since he was old enough to hold five cards in his hand and knew his way around several games commonly wagered over.

"Not really," said Rob giving Edward a meaningful look.

"Well I know an entertaining game of chance, that if we were to play for a few pennies wager would be all the more exciting and entertaining to the prize, gentlemen. Would you care for me to explain it?" He fanned a tattered pack of cards on the table in front of him, flipped the pack, and riffled the cards with his thumb.

"Now what do you say lads?"

"Well we shouldn't really," said Rob doubtfully, "But I suppose one little game couldn't hurt."

It wasn't long before a small heap of change had piled up on the table between them, all the players were exhibiting good skills and a second round of drinks was ordered as they settled into the sport of it. As the day grew late the three players were joined by two more sailors, who were friends of the first. In the gaslight glow cheep cigar and pipe smoke hung in the air and leisurely looped round the heads of the players. The table, sticky with spilt ale, held a pile of coins and each player had a serious, though worn, expression on his face.

The largest pile of coins sat in front of Rob who had done well during the play. Edward was about even, but the sailor's were each down some. The boys would have cashed in and left with their winnings earlier if it hadn't been for the held out prospect of meeting Billy Badger, but as the evening wore on this looked less and less likely. Both Edward and Rob were now somewhat worse for the drink and Edward began to think it was a good time to get out of the game and find somewhere to hole up for the night.

"Well Nelson," Edward addressed their new friend.

"Aye, named for the great man his self," replied Nelson his words a little slurred from the ale.

"I'm just about done in. I think Rob and I must be on our way," said Edward.

"Now yous can't just go leaving without giving us a chance to win back our losses," insisted Nelson, pointing at the boys with the stem of his pipe. "That just wouldn't be right."

"No, well we have to go anyway," Edward replied firmly.

"Aye well as we may get a chance to win it back another day then," said Nelson grinning at the other two sailors. "I think we'll get our chance to have a crack back at them don't you agree boys?" the other sailors nodded and grinned back.

"Look lets have one last drink then and and we can all be friends," suggested Nelson.

The boys agreed, as this seemed their only chance of getting away and finding somewhere they could safely rest the night, and a moment latter Nelson returned from the bar with another round of ale in wooden pint pots.

"These are the king's ales boys," Nelson told them swinging his across the table. "Seems as how it's by his grace we have money in our pockets an all. To the king, the Emperor, to Victor the third and his health."

Everyone clacked their tankards together and took a deep swig. "And to the Rose and Crown for having wooden bottomed tankards." Nelson toasted further, a toast which seemed a little strange to Edward, but what did he know of sailor's ways?

"And I don't suppose you fine fellows have secured yourselves billets for tonight in old Tewkesbury town?" asked Nelson.

"We've got something sorted out, don't you worry," Edward told him. "A nice room, cheep but clean, over on..." He struggled to recall any road he'd seen in Tewkesbury that had cheep boarding houses on them.

"Would it be over Hanover Street way?" asked Nelson innocently.

"That's it. Mrs. Maldoon's fine establishment for young men," said Edward doing his best to fabricate something plausible.

"Well now I think I've got you there Gentlemen," Nelson pounced.

"Seems as there is no Hanover Street in Tewkesbury. I'll be bound you're on the streets tonight. So why not come with us to our nice cosy boat and you can have a bed there with us," offered Nelson.

"Now what's the game here?" asked Rob suddenly. "I've heard about you lot, press gangs and what have you. What tricks are you up to now."

"Don't go getting all excited," Nelson reassured Rob. "Look I'll level with you caus I like you. First I've never heard of Billy Badger. Second if you look in your cups you'll see a nice bright shiny new Shilling, that's the king's Shilling that is and you have contracted to the Navy by the act of acceptance, it's all lawful and everything," Nelson grinned evilly at them. "And to top it all we're going to help carry you home to our lovely warm boat where you can sleep it off."

Rob tried to stand up but he was trapped between the wall, the bench he was sitting on and the table, blocked in by one of the sailors. As he struggled to free himself from the trap Nelson pulled a short black sinister object from his pocket and tapped Rob one on the back of his head. Edward watched as Rob fell unconscious on the table scattering his winnings everywhere and was about to protest himself, when the world went black.
