Chapter 5 – Trapped at Manor Farm
Over the next few days the boys moved steadily southward living off the land as they went. They kept to the woods or where that wasn't possible, to the hedgerows and fields, avoiding the roads as much as possible. During the day they rode in desultory silence, at night they huddled together for warmth. From time to time they were forced to pass through a village, to ask directions or buy a little food with the few coins they had left from the money Boss Badger had given them.

As the boys past to the east of Reddich dark thunderous clouds which had threatened rain all day released their payload. Long grey rods of water beat upon the boys hunched backs. Cold water soaked through their clothes and dripped down their collars. With hands and lips turned blue with cold they pressed on heads bent against the assaulting elements. The morning wore on and the clouds only grew blacker and heavier with no sign of the rain abating.

By lunch time they were crossing the woodlands and fields between the villages of Morton Bagot and Spernal Ash. They paused briefly under the spreading branches of an old oak tree. Sheltering between the trunk and Strawberry's broad flank, they chewed on lumps of cold, wet, stale, bread. As they climbed back on Strwaberry Rob began to sneeze and Edward knew they would need to find shelter for the night. They continued plodding on, but soon Rob had a hacking cough to punctuate his sneezes and he began to shiver uncontrollably.

They were crossing a sodden field when Edward spotted a run down building standing in the corner of a field, and though he knew it to be a risk, he decided they should stop the night. Perhaps he could find enough dry wood to get a fire going. He guided Strawberry over to the stone structure. At sometime in the past it had been a cow byre or donkey stable. It consisted of a stone rear and side walls with a wooden roof and wooden front wall. The front wall had become damaged, rotted and collapsed in places and the roof let in more water than it kept out, but at the back, in a far corner Edward found a dry place which he helped Rob walk to  and lay him down, then back out to look for wood.

Behind the stone shed lay a tangle of branches and weeds and bits of tree trunk where the farmer had clearly dumped his hedge cuttings, tree stumps and unwanted bits of farm lumbar. Pulling off the top branches, Edward found enough relatively dry wood to start a fire. 

He made tinder with dry rotten wood flakes from the shed wall, and using flints which Rob kept in a little tin, tried to get a fire started. He'd not had much experience with flint and it took him a while, fingers stiff and shaking from the cold.  Eventually a spark caught in the fluffy mass of tinder. A tiny glow encouraged by soft blowing became a bigger glow and with further coaxing, Edward eventually encouraged it to an infant flame. With a little care and patience he brought the fire to life. Next he spent an hour or so dragging suitable bits of wood into the shed, stacking them near the fire. Having collected an adequte stock of fuel Edward removed his sodden clothes and hung the garments on sticks he'd set around the fire before turning his attention to Rob.

While Edward built the fire Rob had coughed and hacked, shivered and moaned, but now, just as disturbingly, he had fallen silent. Edward felt his forehead as he'd seen the nurse do at the orphanage. His head was burning hot but as Edward struggled Rob out of his wet clothes the boy moaned and complained he felt deathly cold. Edward hung Rob's clothes, as he had his own and went and lay down next to his friend to help keep him warm. After an hour or so Rob fell into a fitful sleep and Edward got up to feed the fire again. Their shirts were almost dry so he took them and lay them over Rob. As more of their garments dried off Edward was able to improve the boy's bed with their coats. He himself put on only his trousers donating his coat and shirt to Rob's greater need.

Sitting on the dirt floor listening to the drip drip of the rain from the rickety roof Edward examined their worldly goods and wealth. It came to two shillings and sixpence, half a loaf of stale bread and a few ounces of hard cheese. There was still a half keg of beer and, Edward supposed rather optimistically, they owned an empty keg and some rope. They might get a few pence for the kegs. He woke Rob, who seemed a little better, his fever had subsided and the chill seemed out of his bones. Edward helped him eat some bread, which he softened in beer and gave Rob all the cheese. After that Edward stoked up the fire with logs from the pile and wrapping themselves in their coats the two boys huddled down together and fell asleep.

Edward woke with a sharp jabbing in his side, he rolled over trying to shift it, only to find the jabbing was now on his other side. He opened his eyes and looked up to see a fat red angry face which peering down at him from under a farmer's hat. The farmer poked him once more with the barrel of a shotgun and grunted, his large ginger moustache shaking as he did so.

"Looks like Tripps was right, there was smoke coming from the old byre last night," said the farmer. "Now what are you two doing here? No good I'll be bound. Well this is my byre you're trespassing in, so you two will be coming with me."

"There's a horse an' all," a voice cried from outside the byre.

"Horse thieves to boot then," said the farmer. "Now up with the both of you," he gave Edward an even harder poke with the gun to underline his point.

"We're not horse thieves, that's our horse," protested Edward as he got to his feet. "We only needed a dry place for the night, we haven't done anything wrong."

"Less of your lip son," said the farmer waiving both barrels in Edward's face. "Just follow old Hodgkins there and I'll be right behind you with this horse and this shotgun," he told the boys.

Heads hung they followed the farm hand across a field towards the gate, whereupon the bedraggled little parade left the field and continued up the lane which led to Manor Hall Farm. Up ahead old Hodgkins swung open the farmyard gate and the farmer ushered the boys into the yard.

At the far end stood a farmhouse, a typical two story stone structure with its own little garden behind a low stone wall. Flowers sat on windowsills in cheery pots and a green painted door opened onto a short path. Along one side of the yard ran stables, an engine room and storage sheds. On the other, several pens built from rough hewn planks housed pigs and sheep. An old wooden cart with a broken axial stood rotting in the corner.

 As they entered the farmyard a voice called out, and a pretty young girl of fifteen or so years of age, in a pretty yellow dress and white stockings, came skipping out the farm house door.

"Papa papa," she cried excitement all over her rosy cheeked face. But when she saw the boys she came to an abrupt halt.

"Now you just get yourself back inside young Tilly," said the farmer without any of the gruffness he'd used on the boys.

"Who are they?" asked the girl, ignoring her father's order.

"Just some scallywags I caught, down the field at bluebell bottom," said the farmer. "You don't go worrying about them."

Tilly looked the two boys over and as she did so Edward caught her eye. She gave him a shy smile then looked at her father.

"They look hungry to me," said Tilly.

"Never you mind about that young lady. They've been up to no good I'll be bound, and I'm not paying to put honest food in their mouths," he replied.

"You've no right in keeping us this way," Edward protested. "We've done nothing wrong," he knew it was probably a mistake to speak out but he was tired and angry.

"We'll see what the Constable has to say about that when I fetch him up here," said the farmer herding the boys towards an empty stable. "Meanwhile you can make yourselves comfortable in here," he added pushing them in. The stable door slammed shut behind them.

After a few minutes Edward's eyes grew accustomed to the gloom. The stable door and several loose roof tiles allowed some light in, and a long split in the wood gave the boys a partial view of the yard. Chickens pecked hopefully at the mud and lazing on an old stone wall, a grey cat watched them with emerald green eyes which had a greedy glint in them. Once Rob was sure the yard was empty he tested the door with his shoulder. Even though it was loose in its fittings it was locked solidly shut. For now at least there was nothing to do except sit and wait and contemplate their fate.

Edward began a search of the stable to see if there was anything of use, but all he got for his efforts was a hand full of horse dung. The morning wore on and the sun began to dry out the mud in the yard. In the distance Edward heard a dog barking excitedly and from the nearby trees, birds sang brightly in their freedom, but the sun didn't reach into the dark stable to warm the boys whose bellies ached with hunger.

The sun had reached its midday high when Edward heard the farmhouse door open and the sound of delicate footsteps skipping across the yard. He looked out through a crack in the door and saw the grey cat still asleep in the sunshine. Suddenly a shadow fell across his view and a moment later the pretty blond locks and bright yellow of Tilly's frock filled the splintered aperture through which Edward peered.

"Pssst, pssst," she hissed through the door. "Can you hear me?" she whispered horsely.

"Yes," Edward whispered back.

"Who is it?" asked Rob.

"It's the farmers daughter," Edward told him.

"Are you all right in there?" asked Tilly.

"We're cold and hungry and it's not right us being locked up like this when we've done nothing wrong," replied Edward. "We've done nothing except sleep in your father's rotten old shed," he told her through the door.

"And he's stolen our horse Strawberry," Rob added.

"will you help us?" asked Edward.

There was silence from the other side of the door then Tilly replied. "I'll get into a whole heap of trouble if I let you out," she said doubtfully.

"If you're not he to help us then why are you here?" asked Edward.

"I'm so lonely and bored in the farmhouse all day," she confessed.

"Can you bring us something to eat?" asked Edward. "We're sore hungry."

Again there was silence then the sound of Tilly's footsteps hurrying away.

"Do you think she'll help us?" asked Rob.

"I don't know," Edward replied truthfully as he slumped back down with his back to the door.

The yard was quiet again except for the odd clucking of hens and the boys sank back, each into their respective thoughts. Just as Edward was about to give up any hope of help or food from Tilly, he heard her quick steps approach the stable again. Through the crack in the door he saw she carried a cloth covered basket. After a moment a rattling came at the door as the girl drew back the rusty old bolt, then, the door swung open and bright sunlight flooded in. Their saviour stood framed in the doorway, golden sunshine pouring through her hair.

"Here I've brought you something to eat," she said, handing the basket to Edward, who, quick as a flash took the basket and stood in the doorway so she couldn't close the door again.

"What are you doing?" she wailed as Edward signalled to Rob to follow him.

"We're not staying her a moment longer, that's what we're doing," he told her, then taking pity on her he gave her a kiss on her peachy cheek and said. "Tell you're father we tricked you, or we broke loose. Now which stable did he put our horse in?"

Confused and more than a little upset Tilly indicated the next stall and in a moment Rob was leading Strawberry out. She'd lost the kegs, but that mattered not to the boys who were joyful to have their liberty, and their horse back again. Poor Tilly was on the verge of tears as they climbed on to Strawberry's back.

"Don't worry," Edward reassured her. "You've righted a great wrong and if we ever come by this way again we'll see you right," and with that Rob urged Strawberry to the fastest canter she was capable off and they trotted off down the road waiving to the poor girl as they went.

"We'd better keep off the road as much as we can, we don't want to run into that farmer again," said Edward, so soon as they could, Rob took them into the fields and they continued cross country. Once they felt they were far enough away from Manor Farm they stopped by a stream in a small wood and took stock of the basket Tilly had given them.

Under a red and white checked cover they found fresh bread and cheese and small ham, apples and pears and two little cakes. They were starving and the food tasted wonderful. They felt they were eating like kings and in no time at all, all they had left was the basket and a sense of fulfilment, where for so many days there had been nothing but emptiness.

"How far to Tewkesbury do you thing?" asked Rob, a contented grin on his face.

"I don't know, not far now I think," replied Edward. "Maybe a day, two at the most?"

"As long as we keep heading south-west we should be fine," said Rob. "We just keep heading a bit south of the setting sun."

The boys knelt by the side of the stream and drank their fill of the pure sweet spring water which ran there and washed clean their grime streaked faces before climbing on to the ever patient Strawberry's back. As they proceeded though the woods with the birds singing and everything feeling right with the world, Edward felt like joining the birds in their chorus though he knew no songs, so he hummed merrily to himself and after a fashion Rob joined in with a jauntily whistled tune.

Nearing the edge of the wood Rob suddenly fell silent and indicating to Edward to do the same, he brought Strawberry to a halt.

"What is it?" asked Edward.

"Listen," Rob replied in hushed tones.

Edward listened and after a moment or two he heard the sound of horses approaching. Through the scree of bushes and branches the boys watched the road which ran back in the direction from which they had come. Coming up the road towards them was the farmer on a brown mare closely followed by a mounted Constable in a blue uniform and behind them a black carriage with four militiamen wearing red jackets and long black boots. As they passed the place where the boys were hidden the boys clearly saw the Imperial crest emblazoned in red and gold on the coach door. The boys waited only till the coach had passed from sight before hurrying across the road and into the woods beyond.

"What do you think that was about?" asked Rob as they continued on.

"I think they were coming for us," said Edward.

"Surely not, how can we be so important as to require four miltamen?" replied Rob incredulously.

"I don't know, but you remember what happened back at the cave," he reminded a now grim Rob. "I don't know why we should be of any interest to them, but it seems we are."

"We'll have to be cautious," remarked Rob.

Throughout the afternoon they continued keeping to the thickest woods. When they had to, they crossed open fields, but feeling exposed, Edward couldn't help looking over his shoulder nor could he throw off a sense of unease, of being followed. As evening began to fall it became harder for them to see their way and they were forced out into the open, though now they had the darkness of night to hide them.

Eventually they were unable to keep going, but dared not look for a place to sleep, so in a wooded corner of a field they hunkered down, backs against a tree.

"Do you think they will track us?" asked Edward.

"Who knows, they might," Rob replied uneasily, then added "We should take it in turns to keep watch throughout the night."

Edward agreed and took the first watch. As Rob tried to get some sleep Edward peered into the darkness. The slightest noise, the slightest movement, the shadow of a cloud crossing the fields had him on tenterhooks and he peered strenuously into the gloom, until, exhausted, he woke Rob from a fitful sleep to take his turn.

Leaning with his back pressed into the great trunk of the tree Edward closed his eyes meaning only to rest them, feeling so tense and alert he felt he would never sleep. The next thing he knew, Rob was shaking him to wakefulness as the first weak strains of daylight fell across the fields.

"We'd better get moving," Rob said, as he rubbed Strawberry down with handfuls of fresh clean grass which he tore from the ground.
