Chapter 12 – The Countess of Wetherby
"Hello Isambard, you are well I trust," her voice, while sweet and melodic on one level, was mechanical and stilted on another, as if her words were played on fairy pipes. She spoke each word clearly enough, with a distinct pause between each, during which Edward heard a soft clicking. The jewel eyes looked around the cabin and finally settled on Edward.

"You have company today Isambard," said the mechanical Countess.

"Yes, yes indeed," cried Isambard excitedly while hopping around the Countess's control panel, adjusting the wheels and levers set there in. "She has detected your presence," he told Edward. "Isn't she magnificent?"

She certainly was thought Edward, though he'd never seen nor imagined such a thing before, and found it a little unsettling, was she alive or just a clever mechanism?

Isambard stood at a the Countesses' keyboard tapping little brass keys while babbling joyfully to himself. "Now if I just recalibrate the Hizen regulators and loop the Barstow functions through the secondary processing engine..." his fingers danced across keys and tiny levers as he made his adjustments.

The Countess spoke, "Datum accepted. Registering and processing. Edward York Imperial Infante, male, blond, blue eyed, six foot, weighing one hundred and forty pound. Current location, the Airship Countess of Wetherby. A pleasure to make your acquaintance Edward."

Edward jumped, the beautiful mechanical face had addressed him. "Er, a pleasure to meet you too Countess," replied Edward, rather self consciously, unsure how he should talk to a machine.

"How does she work? How can she speak?" he asked Isambard.

"Oh, well, she really is very sophisticated. She has a small pipe organ fitted at the back, each battery of pipes plays a phonetic sound giving her the illusion of speech. She really is a very clever series of mechanisms and intricate instructions. My daughter, Ada, did most of the instructing for the Countess including the vocalisation routines," Isambard replied with some pride.

Edward found it a little hard to believe that this excitable, wizened old man had a daughter, but at the moment he was willing to believe anything was possible.

The Countess began to whir again and after a moment sang out. "Edward Infante heed my warning, things are not as they seem."

"Oh dear, oh dear," Isambard mumbled, "I really have no idea where that came from. Sometimes I wonder that she might have a mind of her own," the old man laughed nervously.

"Well we should be getting along I'm sure," said Isambard hurriedly.

"Good bye Countess," Edward said to the machine, feeling it best to be polite. The Countess whirred again and a small printed card popped out of a slot just below the metal face and fell into a small brass bowl which waited below ready to receive such things. Edward picked the card up and looked at it. It read, "Merryman's House of Wonders, Admits one Adult. No refund."

"How peculiar," said Isambard, reading the card over Edward's shoulder. "She's never done anything like that before."

"What does it mean?" asked Edward.

"I'm sure I don't know young Edward, perhaps you should keep it just in case," he suggested.

"In case of what?" asked Edward.

"In case you are ever near Merryman's House of Wonders," the old man replied sharply. "Now we really aught to be moving along."

Edward was beginning to get a feel for the layout of the Wetherby and realised the potty Professor Isambard Van Klees was taking him forward. They climbed a steep set of stairs leading to a chamber at the front most point of the airship. The room was entirely glassed across the front, allowing a panoramic view of the sea which lay before them. Sunlight glinted off the waves and rode upon a sea of green and blue. The Duke was waiting for them in the forward observation gallery staring out across the vast ocean, hands clasped behind his back, he turned to greet them as they entered.

"Ah Isambard, I see Edward has managed to prise you from your laboratory for the first time this voyage," said the Duke by way of greeting the old man.

"Indeed your Lordship," said Isambard bowing to the Duke. "And I feel I have been distracted from my work for long enough today, so if you'll excuse me," he bowed again and scurried from the room before the Duke had a chance to reply, or Edward to thank him.

"So you've met Isambard and Captain Legate then my boy. Don't let first impressions fool you, they are both brilliant men in their own ways and in their fields of expertise," said the Duke. 

"We still have some time before we arrive in Holland, probably late tomorrow, so please feel free to explore the Wetherby as you like till then. I would also be honoured if you would join me for dinner this evening, here in the forward gallery," with that the Duke turned and strode out of the room.

Edward stood and watched the endless sea for a while, then walked casually round the room. He tried sitting on the elegantly upholstered chairs, he selected a leather bound book from the small ornate bookcase and flicked idly through the pages feeling the expensive paper between his fingers. He put the book down without reading any of it and followed the Duke from the observation gallery and went exploring the Wetherby in earnest, while wondering where Rob had got to.

He walked the corridors of the main hull for a while then crossed the port gantry to the out-rigged hull, which like the one he'd arrived at, contained a large warehouse space and a smaller airship. Crates of goods were stacked up and even a steam car sat on the deck. Several crewmen were busy with the goods and while they looked up and saw him, they took no further notice and continued with their duties. Back in the main hull Edward was continuing his explorations when Chesterton came briskly round a corner.

"Mr. um, Black, the Duke has informed me you'll be taking dinner with him tonight, and the tailor has completed the necessary adjustments and what-have-you to your garments. I think it would be a most opportune moment for you to try your new clothes on Sir, if you would follow me," Edward did as he was asked and followed the stiff butler back to his apartment.

As promised there were fresh clothes laid out and a pair of brown knee length boots, not unlike the Duke's own. Chesterton presented Edward with a silk shirt, cotton stockings, fresh britches and an embroidered frock coat in a dark green material with a green silk lining.

"But first Mr. black, may I suggest a bath. I've taken the liberty of drawing one for you in your bathroom," Chesterton informed him.

"I have a bathroom?" Edward asked in surprise. He was beginning to feel he'd have better spent his time exploring his own apartment, what else did it have? An armoury? It's own train? Chesterton slid open a connecting panel to reveal a sizeable room of which a large enamel bath was the centre piece, large enough for two or perhaps even three people. He stripped off and slid into the warm relaxing water, perfumed with something, he didn't know what but it smelt very pleasant and refined. As he bathed, Chesterton came in and suggested a hair cut.

"There's no end to your talents eh Chesterton?" Edward joked.

"No Sir, I'm sure your right," Chesterton agreed, "Now if you'll just hold your head still I'll soon have you looking like a lord."

Feeling refreshed and cleaner than he'd ever felt before, Edward followed Chesterton back to the main room where he dressed in his new clothes. Chesterton wheeled a large mirror from the corner of the room and presented Edward to himself, in the looking glass, he hardly recognise the image before him.

Gone was the gawky, dirty haired, bare foot urchin boy, all elbows and knees poking through thin cloth. In his place stood a young man, refined and dignified, flowing blond locks falling gracefully to his broad shoulders. Gone the elfin pinched face and in it's place the proud nascent features of the man that he would become.

"Well, well Sir, what a difference that makes," remarked Chesterton, not unimpressed with his own efforts. "They say clothes maketh the man, and they're not wrong in that."

Edward strutted up and down in his new finery, the stiff leather of his new boots a novel sensation, and though he felt very grand, he also felt somewhat uncomfortable, things rubbed where they had never before, and his toes were being pinched by the new boots.

"Boots are not as comfortable as bare foot," Edward informed Chesterton.

"You'll get used to them Mr. Black, once they're worn in a bit, I think you'll find they fit like a glove, or the tailor will be looking for a new post," remarked Chesterton. "Now it's time you were making your way to dinner Sir, no doubt his Lordship will be waiting on receive you."

Though Edward knew the way, Chesterton insisted on leading him to the forward gallery where, indeed, the Duke of Northumberland was waiting, and not alone. It appeared the Duke had arranged a small party.

Edward strode self-consciously into the gallery as the setting sun fell behind the Wetherby throwing long golden rays of orange light across the swiftly darkening sea. The Duke's other dinner guests were already assembled as Edward entered. He immediately recognised Captain Legate, Isambard Van Klees and Echart the Captain of the Wetherby, but the identities of the other two guests, a man and a woman, momentarily eluded him, then with a start, he realised the man was his friend Robert and the woman the Lady Carmine.

It appeared Robert had undergone something of the same transformation as himself, his straight dark hair cut and neatly combed, a clean white shirt, dark britches and boots and short blue shoulder cape, but it was the Lady Carmine who took his breath away. Of course he'd appreciated her beauty the moment he'd laid eyes on her, but now she wore her hair loose, flowing across her shoulders and down her back, her piercing green eyes set off against the dusky orange of her long flowing dress. As he caught her eye she curtsied to him.

"My lord," she simply said.

The Duke looked on with an amused expression. "Don't worry dear boy, she's given her word as a lady not to assassinate you tonight, besides which it would be most impolite of her to do so before we have eaten."

"Indeed," echoed Legate who from the look he gave her, clearly felt it was his duty to keep an eye on the deadly Baronetess in case she should be taken by any sudden urges to be anything less than impeccable in her manners.

"Hey Rob is that really you?" asked Edward of his friend approaching him across the room. Robert smiled and bowed to Edward. "Aye, tis I my lord," he replied.

This struck Edward as being odd. This was a change in his friend's attitude towards him, and despite the flattering title, he wasn't sure he liked hearing it come from Rob. Edward also noticed an almost imperceivable nod of approval from Legate which led him to conclude that Robert had been coached by the Captain in royal etiquette, or at least in how to behave towards the new Edward.

"How have you been?" he asked Robert. "Have you been looked after?"

"See for yourself," grinned Rob, then remembering himself, added, "my lord," before continuing, "I have these fine new clothes and boots the like of which I never dreamt would belong to me. It seems your fortune is smiling on us both."

"So it should my friend," replied Edward, before turning to the Lady Carmine and bowing as he'd seen Robert do.

"Lady Carmine, I'm so glad to see you, I trust you have been treated well?" he asked hoping this was the right kind of thing to say and noting the thin smile of amusement on Lady Carmine's lips that somehow suggested to him that no matter how exquisite the clothes a monkey was dressed in, it remained a monkey.

He leant in closer to her and spoke in low tones which the others couldn't hear. "May I say how sadened I was to hear of your Father's death. I know not whether I'm the Infante or just an orphan who chances to have the look of the old Emperor, but that matters not, for the loss I feel."

Lady Carmine looked momentarily shocked and for a moment as if she would say something, but she maintained her icy composure. "I will miss him greatly," continued Edward, "For all my life he was the only person to show me any kindness or compassion, he was in many ways the closest thing I had to a father, and now I know to what risk he put himself, while I'm sure it was something he did willingly, I would not have asked it of him had I known."

At this Lady Carmine's ridged expression momentarily broke and she showed real emotion both for her own and Edward's loss. In that moment she realised that her Father had been, as near as could be, the only Father Edward had known. In that instant there grew a bond between them born of their mutual grief. She reached out and laid a consoling hand on Edward's arm and said quietly, "I never realised."

The moment was interrupted by the ringing of fork on glass as the Duke drew everyone's attention.

"Lady and gentlemen, I would like to propose a toast," he announced. "We had long feared the lose of Edward Infante and believed him dead. Now he is returned and in due course, we hope, to be set upon the throne which is rightfully his. Let us now raise our glasses to Edward Infante."

"Edward Infante," the other chorused raising their glasses high.

