Chapter 18 – Secret room
Nothing happened for a moment. Edward glanced at Carmine and a look of disappointment was crossing his face, when suddenly, a low grinding noise came from the stones at his feet causing him to jump back in astonishment. For an instant Edward thought it might be Lord Philip's strange servant making the noise, but it quickly became clear, this was not the case. A semi-circle of stones began to sinking smoothly into the floor, each stone forming a step, until a stairway spiralled away down into the darkness below them.

"A secret stairway," said Edward excitedly.

"I never knew this was here," said Carmine with some surprise, "Daddy never told me about anything like this."

"Shall we investigate?" invited Rob, impatient to see what was below.

"We will need a light," said Edward, and as he spoke Ra Chet, the strange servant walked to the stairs in his unique way and descended into the gloom. A moment later they heard the sound of a door then light flooded up the stairs.

"That seems to have sorted that," said Rob with some satisfaction.

"Lets see where the stairs lead and find out what Ra Chet has discovered," suggested Carmine.

Cautiously they descended the steps which ended some feet below ground in an oak lined chamber. A thick wooden door at the foot of the stairs guarded the room but now stood open. Edward looked around. The chamber contained a desk and some heavy, richly upholstered chairs, a woven red and gold rug lay on the grey flagstones. On the wall behind the desk the flower motif had been carved into an oak panel.  There was no sign of the mysterious servant.

"We have found the secret room," said Rob, "Now what?"

"We must search it," declared Carmine. "Daddy wanted us to find this, why else would he have left us the clues?"

Edward strolled over to the desk. "There's a letter here for us Carmine, and a ring," he said in surprise. She came over and looked at the envelope laying on the desk, with her father's seal in dark red wax welded to the fine linen paper. It was marked 'Edward and Carmine' in Lord Philip's distinctive, flowing handwriting.

Edward picked up the ring. It was in many way similar to his own, though he could tell at a glance the motif was slightly different.

"It looks like he hoped we would make it this far," said Edward picking up the letter, "Who should read it?" he asked.

"He put your name first," observed Carmine.

"Very well," responded Edward and he broke the wax seal with a deft snap and unfolded the thick paper within. For a moment he studied the sheet then handing the ring to Carmine he read out loud.

"My Dearest Children," it began. "If you have found this, then I must rejoice. You have found each other and deciphered the code which opens the secret room, something you could only have done together, but also I fear, it means I am almost certainly dead. I have therefore placed my Ducal signet ring a top this letter. My dearest Cami, you are now Lady of Apethorpe Manor, and I put our ring, the family honour, and my undying trust in you."

"While all that is Apethorpe Manor and it's grounds are Carmine's by birth right, The rooms beneath belong to the League of the White Rose and therefore are in Edwards' charge, as head of the league."

"It is my hope the two of you will continue the work which Edward's father Richard, and I, began so many years ago, long before he succeeded to the throne. "

"In the reign of Edward's Grandfather Victor I, before your father's accession, Edward," the letter continued," we were a small group of friends bound under Richard's leadership. We had great adventures and over the years collected many wonderful and amazing things, but that is another story, one I can not tell here, for I fear time is now growing short."

"During our adventures we came across an ally who alerted us to the existence of a mysterious group know as the Guardians. It was then we discovered the true nature of this highly secretive and powerful sect. The Guardians of the One tree profess a belief that science is an affront to God, as an attempt to understand the work of God through science is a blasphemy, and they work ceaselessly to prevent scientific progress. But be warned, while they would deny others the benefits of science, while they kill and steal to keep the light of knowledge from mankind, they use the very same discoveries against us."

"We believe science can bring great benefits to all mankind, both rich and poor alike, and so we undertook to destroy the Guardians and take back the secrets they have stolen. So we formed the League of the White Rose to oppose them. We began to research in secret and we began to hunt down the Guardians, but we were betrayed by your father's own brother, your uncle, Henry York, he who calls himself by you rightful title, Victor the Third."

"After your father's murder, Henry set about destroying the League, the few of us who are left have been in hiding for many years. Now it is up to you Edward, to take up your father's banner and once again fight against injustice and ignorance. Though much of the original League has been destroyed you will find you still have powerful allies who will make themselves known to you in time."

"Also be warned of your Uncle the Duke of Northumberland, who sides with neither the League nor the Guardians, and who is a rich and powerful man in his own right. Since your father's death the Duke has gained control of much which should be yours by rights, the Airship, the countess of Wetherby, being his greatest prize, but know that she belongs to the League, and is marked with the sign of the white rose."

"Do not confront either of your Uncle's until you are strong. There is a great ally to you in the Duke's household, undoubtedly he has helped you already. Do not expose his position for he knows much that you must learn. He will give you help as you need it and as he is able. You must protect him, for he is one of our first and one of our last."

"Finally, Edward, you must seek out my servant Ra Chet and show him the ring I gave you those many years ago, he will know what to do."

"To my dearest Carmine I can not say  how much I love you nor how deeply I will miss you when I am gone. Yours in Love and fealty Philip Hanson-Augustus Baronet of Apethorpe friend of Richard York."

"Oh," Carmine let slip a gasp as she heard the final words of her father's letter read out. She steadied  herself against the large desk.

"Are you all-right?" asked Edward placing a reassuring hand on her shoulder.

"He knew they were on to him," replied Carmine. "He must have known, or at least suspected, why else would he leave those letters?"

"I agree," replied Edward.

"What do we do now?" asked Rob.

"Well I am guessing there is another room down here," said Edward. "Lord Philip's letter referred to the rooms that belong to the League, plus, the mystery of where Ra Chet has vanished to. He doesn't appear to be in here and he didn't pass us on the stairs, so... I think there must be a secret door to another room." mused Edward.

"A secret door in the secret room. I'm beginning to think this League has something to hide," joked Rob.

"Help me look man," Edward replied tartly, as he began a close examination of the walls. It didn't take him long to find something. In the wall immediately opposite the stairs he spotted a small oval recess, little larger than his thumb. He called the others over as he stuck his finger into the hole. Nothing happened.

"Another of your father's puzzles I think," said Edward stepping back from the otherwise blank wall, it's close fitting dark stones staring silently back at him.

"Wait a minute, what's that?" asked Rob indicating a spot several inches below the hole Edward had found. Looking closely they saw a second oval recess identical in size to one above it.

"Two holes," mused Carmine idly as she twisted her ring round and round on her finger, the sensation of it sitting there, still strange, both comfortable and disconcerting at the same time. She looked up to see the two boys looking at her.

"You know I think she may have solved it," said Edward.

"I think you are right," agreed Rob.

She looked at them blankly then noticed she was twirling her ring.

"The rings?" she asked, "you think it's something to do with the rings?"

Edward nodded, taking his ring off his finger he placed it over the upper hole and pressed it in. The ring fitted perfectly and he thought he felt a slight click as he did so.

"Try yours," he said to Carmine.

She slipped the ring from her finger and pressed it into the lower recess. There was an audible click a ticking noise then the wall began to slide away from them. After a few moments the wall swung inward revealing a further room.

They looked into what appeared to be a large stone chamber with an arched ceiling, lit by a row of strange glowing orbs. A long oval table dominated the room around which were set twelve ornate chairs. They stepped in as Edward took the rings from the holes in the wall door. He handed Carmine's back to her.

"What is this place?" asked Rob.

"I'm thinking this used to be the League's secret base," said Edward approaching the rose wood table with the white rose motif, inlayed in ivory, at it's centre. 

"And it can be once again," announced Carmine, "it should be, it will be."

Edward laughed. "We're not much of a League, just the three of us, on the run from the Emperor himself and expected to chase what? the Guardians? about whom we know almost nothing and all the while the Emperor himself looks to have me killed?"

"Three is a beginning," insisted Carmine. "It was my father's dying wish we reform the League, and I for one intend to do just that." she said hotly.

Edward was a little taken aback at the ferocity of Carmine's feelings on the matter. "It's not that I don't want to, I'm with you Cami, It's just that, well..."

"Your problem is you don't believe in us or yourself, you can bring the League back, you represent so much that others can rally behind."

"Perhaps," Edward said slowly, "With your help, both of you."

"Come on Edward," said Rob, "What have we got to loose? You're heir to a crown your uncle will never let you wear, and anyway, what else are you going to do? Where else can you go?"

"And we are not alone," added Carmine, "My Father's letter mentioned someone else who can help us, one of the old League."

"Which reminds me, your father also mentioned Ra Chet and that I should find him, where has he got to?" asked Edward.

They began looking around. The meeting chamber had four doors each set in the middle of a wall. The door they entered by stood open the other three were shut.

"We should explore the rest of the rooms," said Edward. "He can't have gone far. I'll take the far door, Rob you take the left and Carmine you take the right."

Edward approached the heavy wooden door at the far end of the room. Lifting the heavy iron ring handle, he turned it. It moved smoothly and the door swung open. At first the room beyond was lit only by light from the meeting chamber, but after a few moments lights in the ceiling flickered in to life throwing a weak glow which grew steadily brighter.

The ceiling was lower here and the walls panelled in a warm wood. A deep red carpet with the white rose motif woven in the centre, covered the floor. A table and chair stood to one side, a bookshelf laden with leather clad volumes took up one wall and several doors led off the room. Edward tried each door in turn and each opened. There were apartments complete with beds, washstands and desks. A thin layer of dust lay over everything and it was clear to Edward the rooms had not been used recently.

He was just giving the first apartment a through inspection when he heard a cry coming from the main chamber. Edward raced back to find Rob standing there an excited expression on his face.

"You have to see this," He exclaimed as Carmine joined them.

Edward and Carmine followed Rob into a long room with white tiled walls. A row of benches and storage cupboards ran along the left side. Against the right wall were jars neatly arraigned in a line. Each jar stood about two feet high and a foot in diameter. Many of them appeared to be filled with a clear liquid in which discs of metal and cloth had been stacked. Most had a pair of curled wires training from their lids.

"No idea what all this stuff is," Rob said dismissively waiving his hand at the room as he strode towards a door at the far end. The others hurried after him.

"Look at this," Rob said as they entered behind him.

At first glance the room appeared to contain a Babbage machine with what looked like a human figure embossed on the front. The contraption was made of brass rods and cogs, fine gear chains and leavers. Edward spotted a brass wheel to one side of the machine, with a turning handle on it. A curved arrow embossed on the wheel casing suggested the direction of turning, Edward reached out and gave the handle a turn. Immediately the giant, clock like mechanism, began to click and whir. Edward noticed behind the wheel a pair of weights and as he turned the handle the lowest weight moved up. He turned the handle more and the weight rose further.

"What do you think it is for?" asked Rob.

"Well maybe it's something like the Countess of Wetherby," Edward suggested.

They stood and watched the fine movements of the mechanism and listened to it click and whir. The face on the embossed figure, detailed and seamed along the jowls looked like it was crafted with the ability of speech, but the face remained still and silent, the eyes closed as if in deep repose. It seemed nothing was going to happen. 

Edward reached out and gave the crank handle a few more turns then looking at Carmine shrugged and said, "What did you find behind your door?"

"Nothing much of interest, some store rooms and a kitchen. And you?" she asked Edward.

"Apartments and a library," replied Edward as a loud clank came from behind him. He span around and saw the mechanical face open its eyes. For a moment the three looked in surprise, then the entire figure shook, juddered and freed itself from the larger brass mechanism which had seemed to be a part of it.

The mechanical man bent down and picked up a folded robe from an armature and put it on.

Standing in a robe, Edward immediately recognised the figure. "Ra Chet!" he exclaimed.

Ra Chet bowed to Edward. "Is it you I have to thank for winding me up?" he asked, his voice while still mechanical, now sounding lots more vibrant and far less grinding than earlier.

"Ah Lord Philip wanted me to show you something," replied Edward, holding out his hand so the mechanical man could see his signet ring.

Again a stiller than life pause from Ra Chet as if all his energy was being used in examining the ring, for a moment he stood as a statue, then looked at Edward.

"Edward Infante, you have come, just as Lord Philip said you would. I am assignation Third Legion, Fourth Battalion, Group Six, unit Five general duties configuration of the Army of Sun Lao. Lord Philip called me Ra Chet."

"Well I think we will be calling you Ra Chet too," said Edward.

"I have served Lord Philip for fourteen years three months and twenty seven minutes, now I am instructed to serve Edward Infante until such time as he sees fit to assign me to another commander."

"Wow Edward, you have yourself a follower," said Rob, who was visibly impressed by Edwards' new servant.

"Can it fight?" Rob asked.

"If you refer to me Sir," Ra Chet replied, "I am configured for general duties, this would include combat, unarmed and general weaponry."

"Not just a servant," Rob laughed, "A bodyguard as well."

"What can you tell us about my father," ashed Carmine, "Do you know where he went?"

"I do not my Lady, only when, Lord Philip departed ten months two days and sixteen minutes ago, I have waited alone here since then. When you arrived I was beginning to run-down, I have been unable to tend the gardens and house duties for several weeks now, but thanks to Edward Infante I am once again wound tight."

"Couldn't you just wind yourself up?" asked Rob.

"That would require more energy than I have," replied the mechanical man. "Lord Philip built the winding station for me when he returned from his travels and once complete he was able to revive me from a long period of being unwound."

"Is this place the headquarters of the League of the White Rose?" asked Edward.

"No Edward Infante, your father and the League knew of this place and came here often, but this is Lord Philip's laboratory, the Leagues' headquarters were destroyed by your uncle.  Fortunately neither of your uncle's know of the laboratorys existence."

"So we are safe here." said Edward.

"For the time being," replied Carmine. "I will need to take on a small staff if we are to be here any length of time, it might look suspicious otherwise, but I don't know who I can trust."

"We could play the part of your staff," Rob volunteered , "No one knows who we are."

Carmine looked to Edward who shrugged, "It is an easy enough role for us," said Edward, "As long as you don't expect good service we are not exactly trained. Rob and I are used to looking after ourselves, but we have never been staff before." Then he stopped a shocked look coming over his face.

"Oh, and there is Anna, I forgot about her in all the excitement." he said.

"Anna, who is Anna," asked Carmine sharply.

"Anna Blacksteel is my sister, well sort of sister, we grew up together. I found her in London at Fairfield House, she is in the service of Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe. I told her I would return and get her."

"I think I might be able to help there," said Carmine looking thoughtful, "I have a plan I think will work. Meanwhile I suggest we get settled here for a while, that is, if you don't mind the servants quarters your Highness."

Edward snorted at Carmine's jib. "You've obviously forgotten I grew up in an orphanage, I'm sure any servants' quarters will be mightily more princely than the orphanage dormitory. I doubt Rob or myself will have any trouble roughing it at Apethorpe Manor."

"And I've had another idea," she said. "I thought one of the storerooms seemed a bit odd, but now I think about it, I'm certain its a dressing room, it's got wigs and cloaks and all manner of outfits, come on, lets take a look."

They ran back to the meeting chamber and entered the section of the underground complex which Carmine had searched. As she said, there was a room full of clothing, hats and wigs and even a dressing table with a large, well lit, looking-glass.

"Edward, I think you would rather suit these ginger moustaches," teased Carmine waving a big furry ginger caterpillar at Edward.

"They might suit you better," he retorted, and they laughed. After much trying on of wigs and hats he and Rob decided beards and moustaches were a good disguise. Edward chose a small well clipped beard which matched his hair colour while Rob chose a large black moustache with droopy ends. A little experimenting with the various gums and unctions which sat on the dresser in small pots and they soon had fake hairpieces stuck to their faces.

Carmine stood back and admired the work. "Well it wont fool the Duke of Northumberland, but it will do for now." she declared.
