Chapter 11 – Enter the Infante
Edward had trouble sleeping. The duke's story ran round and round his head, the bed was too soft, the food he'd eaten too refined, the room too large. Eventually he found peace sleeping in the bottom of a spacious wardrobe, which was where Chesterton found him the following morning when he came to lay out Edward's clothes.

With exemplary professionalism Chesterton kept any note of surprise from his voice when he opened the wardrobe and found the boy curled up there, asleep on the floor.

"Good morning Sir, I trust you slept well?" he enquired as if it were an everyday occurrence to find his charges sleeping in cupboards.

"Er, um, yes thank you Sir," replied Edward, for a moment forgetting he was on the Wetherby and assuming he was on the SS Dauntless.

"Perhaps I may be permitted to make some suggestions for your attire today Sir?" Chesterton continued as the boy, rubbing his eyes and stretching, climbed from the cupboard.

"I believe some of these things will fit you well enough Sir. I'll have the ships tailor take your measurements and make the necessary adjustments to your wardrobe." said Chesterton as he began laying garments across the back of a chair.

"These britches and this shirt should do the job till then Sir. You'll need boots as well, what is your size Sir?" asked Chesterton.

Edward was beginning to become a little irritated with the constant Siring, he was unused to it and it sat uncomfortably with him. He was embarrassed to confess he did not know what shoe size he was, no one had ever asked him before.

"Please call me Edward," he told Chesterton, who managed to prevent a look of horror at the suggestion, from crossing his face.

"I, er..." for once Chesterton looked like he might loose his composure. "If you don't mind Sir, I'd rather not," he said after some considerable inner-debate on how to handle the situation. "It's not my place to be so familiar."

"Well it doesn't sit well with me Chesterton, how about calling me Mr. Black?"

Chesterton didn't look happy at this idea either, his thin moustaches quivered with indignation but he took a deep breath and replied, "Very well Mr. Black, if you insist. Now about your shoe size?"

"Thank you Chesterton. As to my shoe size, I think we'll let the tailor be the judge of that," Edward replied. "until then I shall be quite comfortable bare foot I think."

This was almost more than poor Chesterton could take. "I'll have the tailor come right up Si... Mr. Black."

Chesterton picked up the shirt and approached Edward with it, ready to help him dress. Edward almost tripped over the chair as he leapt out of Chesterton's way crying, "What on earth are you doing man?"

"I'm to help you dress, the Duke is waiting for you to join him at breakfast," Chesterton explained.

"And that gives you licence to attack at me with a shirt?" asked Edward.

"I was merely attempting to assist you in your morning toilet Mr. Black," replied Chesterton.

"I see, well I'm quite capable of dressing myself, thank you Sir," said Edward, trying to relieve Chesterton of the offending garment, who in turn attempted to assert his right to do his job. A delicate pantomime followed in which the two of them managed to work out a method that while not fully satisfying either, was an equitable compromise.

Chesterton insisted on holding out the clothes and Edward on being allowed to put them on himself. Then Chesterton fussed around Edward, trying to tuck his shirt in and straighten his trouser legs while Edward hopped about trying to avoid the unwanted attention. Eventually everything was, as far as it was going to be possible, to Chesterton's satisfaction and he led Edward across the corridor and presented him, shoeless at the Duke's breakfast table.

The Duke took breakfast in a room with a large porthole window which gave on to a panoramic view of the sea below, and where the morning sun flooded in. He sat at a table and waived Edward to take a seat with a piece of toast he was holding in his hand.

"Good morning Edward," he smiled at the boy. "I trust you slept well?"

"After a fashion," replied Edward eyeing the food with no little hunger.

The Duke noticed, "Dig in, dig in, you needn't wait for an invitation, you are the Infante, the world is yours for the taking," the Duke told him with a smile.

"It's... I... I'm not yet used to the idea," confessed Edward.

"No, I suppose not," said the Duke thoughtfully. "I hadn't really considered, but of course your right, I suppose all you have ever really known is the Orphanage."

"I have travelled some, and been in the Royal Navy," Edward insisted.

"Of course, of course, I meant your unused to this kind of life," explained the Duke.

"That's certain," replied Edward securing himself some of the toast before the Duke finished it all.

"We will soon change that," replied the Duke. "There's a lot for you to learn before you can take your rightful place. As I mentioned last night we're headed for Holland, to the Kasteel De Haar near Utrecht, the Grand Duke Leopold Willem Van Der Hoakfen is sympathetic to our cause and De Haar is as safe a place for you right now as any. While Holland is not a British ally, it is not Britain's enemy either and your uncle will have a hard time getting at you in Holland."

"talking of which," continued the Duke, "there is someone I would like you to meet later."

"The tailor?" Edward asked.

The Duke laughed. "Well that's not a bad idea, but not who I had in mind. No, I was thinking it important that you receive comprehensive instruction, in both the military and the finer arts and the man for the job is right here, aboard the Wetherby, my Master-at-arms Captain Proctor-Legate. I've taken the liberty of asking him to join us shortly."

Edward looked out of the window at the passing clouds which surrounded the Wetherby and the emerald blue Atlantic sea below. He could see a small dot on the water below which he thought might be a ship, but it was so small and indistinct he was unsure.

There was a knock at the door followed a moment later by the entrance of a huge man with a main of flowing blond hair and large drooping moustaches which hung from under his nose. His large black boots thundered with each step as he crossed the room.

"Ah Simon," the Duke greeted Captain Proctor-Legate. "Good of you to join us. We were just talking about you."

"My Lord," Captain Legate bowed formally to the Duke. "My Liege," he bowed to Edward.

"Captain Legate will be in-charge of your training Edward. You are almost sixteen and we have five years before you accede to the throne, we must use this time wisely. There is much that you will need to know if you are to rule with a firm and fair hand, not least the arts of war, and I'm afraid to say, of assassination. Knowing the ways of your enemies will help protect against them."

"Perhaps you will permit Captain Legate to show you around the ship as a way of getting to know each other," suggested the Duke.

This seemed like a good idea to Edward and he readily agreed. Having had breakfast in his own quarters the Captain was eager to make a start. It was clear he was a man of action.

"Where's Rob?" Edward asked the Duke, thinking of his friend.

"Ah yes, Mr. Badger," the Duke said thoughtfully. "I'm sure we can find a suitable position for him amongst us. "Perhaps you would assess Mr. Badger's abilities Captain Legate," the duke suggested.

Captain Legate nodded his assent to the Duke and strode purposefully from the room forcing Edward to shoot after him. He followed the captain along the corridor, down a steep metal staircase to the helm.

"Now young Edward, we're stood in the control gondola of the A.S. Wetherby, the pride of the Duke of Northumberland's fleet. The Wetherby is one off only three tri-hulled airships in the world. Built at the Von Zeppelin Skydock's at the Guntergaz Fulghaven she is the largest air-born ship in the world. Constructed from over three thousand tons of steel, and measuring a thousand feet from end to end. The two outrigger hulls house eight Carsholton super-compressed steam turbines capable of maintaining a top speed of fifty five knots an hour," Captain Legate informed Edward in his clipped manner. "I'm sure Flight Captain Echart will be happy to tell you anything more you may want to know about the Wetherby's capabilities.

Captain Legate turned swiftly and was about to stride off again when he noticed Edward's bare feet. "We must do something about that," he said, then led Edward back up the stairs into the main hull.

"These main gangways run the length of the hull. At the bow are the Royal apartments, currently occupied by yourself and the Duke, immediately behind them are the navigation and ships' auxiliary, further to the rear and on the floor above, we have various cabins, guest rooms, lounges, a library, offices and storage," explained the captain as he led Edward up narrow ships steps.

They marched on along the upper corridor until they reached a door which Captain Legate opened. "This is the training room," he announced.

They entered a large cabin with exercise bars lining one wall, and against another stood several weapons racks; a sword rack, a rifle rack and a pistol cabinet.

"Here I will teach you to use a sword and gun," said Captain Legate.

"I'm already trained," claimed Edward proudly.

The Captain Looked at him quizzically then said, "Ah you think what the Navy taught you was sword fighting eh?" as he spoke he strode across to the sword rack, picked two and tossed one to Edward.

"En-guard," cried the Captain raising his weapon.

Edward immediately sprang to the pose, as he'd been instructed on the Dauntless, though the sword he held was lighter and slimmer than the one he was used too. Legate stepped forward and lazily reached for Edward with the tip of his sword. Edward saw the strike coming and easily moved to parry, but to his surprise at the last moment Legate flicked his blade and Edwards' weapon flew from his hand and slid across the polished wooden floor.

The captain laughed at the expression on Edward's face. "You have quite a bit to learn. I think we'll be spending some time practising here," legate predicted.

"Now lets get you measured for some proper boots and then I'll introduce you to your tutor," said the captain. He picked up a brass nosed rubber tube which hung near the door, pulled the rubber stopper from its neck and blew into it.

"Legate here," he shouted into the tube. "Have the tailor meet us in the library," he ordered. "We're most likely to find your tutor there," he explained.

However the tutor was not in the library. Edward stood in the middle of the book lined room as the tailor, a short trim man with a measuring tape draped around his neck and neat wire framed glasses, measured him up. Once this was done Legate led the way, dashing down  corridors at a pace until they came to a cabin not far from the Wetherby's navigation room. Legate opened the door without knocking and stepped inside.

As Edward entered the dimly lit room he heard a whir and a click. Something shot across the floor heading straight for him. He leapt to the side and a metal object the size of a small dog clattered past and crashed into the wall. The whirring continued accompanied by a low whine as the thing thrashed about first climbing at the wall then falling on its side to reveal many small brass legs wriggling in a mechanical fashion.

Edwards eyes were becoming accustomed to the low light and he could see scattered about the room, small brass parts, cogs and springs, balls and rods and half assembled mechanisms, some of which lumbered or jumped or sat panting and ticking and whirring, as well as loose components which seemed to have escaped or were perhaps merely left lying around. In the middle of the room a tall thin flame rose from a pipe assembly which was mounted on a large oak bench. Like the floor, the bench was covered in components and half assembled clockworks and something which, at first, Edward took to be a pile of old rags. When the pile of rags suddenly moved he realised it was in fact the garb of a badly dressed man.

"Isambard," Legate bellowed, "is that you?" he stepped toward the bench and something crunched under foot.

"Oh do be careful," the figure behind the bench cried out, "What are you destroying now Simon? Do watch where your stepping."

"I can't see a damn thing in here Isambard and your infernal contraptions, or at least bits of them, are everywhere," Legate complained, though not with out some humour in his voice.

"Perhaps you should come over here," the captain suggested, "I've someone you ought to meet."

"Really? Who might that be then?" the figure asked his voice strong, strangely accented, and of a tenor which indicated great age. Isambard came around from behind the bench and with a peculiar shuffling he approached Edward and the Captain. Edward realised the old man was sweeping the components and assemblies out of the way with his feet as he walked. A moment latter Edward was looking into bright dark eyes which peered at him from a wizened old face most of which was hidden behind a bushy and unkempt silver beard.

"Who do we have here then Simon? Is this the new boy you've been promising me? I hope he's not as useless as the last one, didn't seem to know which way a clock went, kept loosing the little screws, no good you know, no good at all," the old man complained.

"No Isambard, this is not a new assistant for you. This is Edward," Legate told him.

"Edward is not my assistant? What use have I for such a boy?"

Legate sighed heavily. "The Duke mentioned him no? Surely you remember? The Infante?"

"He looks to old to be an infant," Isambard snapped back.

"Not an infant you old fool, the Infante."

Isambard poked Edward in the arm with a long bony finger. "As usual Simon you've completely lost me, what is the purpose of the boy?" asked the old man testily.

"He's to be your student, or to be clear, you are his new tutor," Legate told him.

Isambard waived dismissively at Legate and Edward and and turned back to his bench. "I have no need of a student," he said.

"Perhaps not, but his Grace feels the boy would benefit from your tutoring, though I don't see it myself," Legate replied.

"Well if his grace thinks so..." said the old man doubtfully, "Well I suppose I should take a look at him."

"I'll leave him with you then," Legate said, dodging out of the cabin before the old man changed his mind.

Professor Isambard Yan Van Klees gave Edward a long hard look, then asked, "What can you do boy?"

"I er, well, lots of things I suppose," Edward replied. He wasn't entirely sure the old man wasn't mad.

"Um, I see, well what do you make of this?" Isambard picked a small metal object from the floor and thrust it at Edward.

"I would say it's a cog of some sort," replied Edward looking at the cog.

The old man grunted, "Any idea what it might be for?" he asked.

"It could be for anything," Edward replied.

"It might be for a fish, or a cart or eating then?" the old man pounced.

"Well probably not those things," Edward said uncertainly, "but it could be part of any of the things in here, like that metal dog thing, or a clock or an analytical engine."

"Ah!" cried Isambard, "so you're not as stupid as you look, perhaps there is some promise in you after all. What do you know about analytical engines?"

Edward told him about his experience with the engine aboard the Dauntless, and his experiences with the steam engine at Blacksteel.

"I see, I see, well your understanding is primitive but you have potential, um, yes, yes, let me see..." he scratched his whiskery chin, deep in thought for a moment.

"The Infante eh?" he said after a moment, "Then there's no harm in showing you I suppose," and with that he leapt from the room.

Despite his age Isambard was sprightly and quick. Edward could now see he was dressed in a  dark brown tweed suit, crumpled and frayed at the elbows, but his shirt was clean. A velvet bow tie which had seen better days hung at his neck and seemed to suit him.

"This way," commanded Isambard. "What is your name boy?" he demanded.

"Edward Sir, Edward Black, or perhaps York," he told the strange old man.

"It seem a little peculiar not to know your own name," Isambard remarked. 

Edward agreed that it was. "It all seems to have got a bit complicated, my name that is," he explained.

"Well Edward will do well enough for now," Isambard told him, "though do please keep me informed of any further nomenclatureial developments, most intriguing, yes most intriguing indeed."

Van Klees led Edward along the corridor to a cabin which contained a machine Edward sort of recognised. It looked something like the Babbage engine aboard the Dauntless but differed in two important respects. The first being it was considerably larger, and the second being the size of its components, which were much much smaller, the tiniest cogs Edward had ever seen. A gentle ticking and clicking came from the machine which stood about two feet taller than Edward.

"This my boy, is the Countess of Wetherby, or at least, her mind as it were," said Isambard as he fiddled with some switches and changed some settings on a long walnut control panel which ran the length of the machine.

"I'm sure you recognise her as being a kind of Babbage engine. Of course the Countess is a lot more than just an engine, she is unique, singular in the world for both her size and delicacy. A wonder of the modern world if you will. She requires her own steam engine to drive her and she is capable of far greater calculations than the mear adding machines the Navy uses." As he spoke Isambard turned a crank and a brass iris began to slide open at the front of the machine.

A gentle whirring followed and the iris expanded to reveal a metallic face formed in the image of a beautiful woman. Her jewelled eyes clicked open, blinked with a gentle ticking and then she spoke.
