Chapter 23 – Brotherhood of Light
Percy was winched aboard the airship and the cables lowered again for Ra Chet. Captain Legate took the rope-ladder and once he gained the gantry, Brother Santicus was made to follow. As the others climbed aboard Edward kept an eye on the Imperial troops' progress.

As he watched, troops swarmed up the netting, six at a time and soon all were assembled on the outer battlements. They split up into small groups which were dispatched to the corners of the castle. As Carmine took to the rope-ladder Edward heard the clang of the drawbridge opening, the troops had reached the winch-room and it would only be moments before they discovered the tower and its fleeing occupants. As if to emphasise this thought, Edward heard a banging from below, their hiding place had been discovered.

He heard the sound of  shots fired and wood splintering. Looking around he was the only one left on the parapet, Rob was just making the top of the ladder. Edward grabbed a rung and began climbing, as he did so he cried out, "Let her loose, get into cloud cover, they're coming."

The Valiant lifted and as it did so, swung Edward out over the great void below, with nothing beneath him except a long fall to a cold dank death in the marches below. A loud bang came from the direction of the tower, clearly they didn't mind destroying some of the inner doors. A plume of smoke streamed from the observation room quickly followed by the flash of red jackets.

As they floated away Edward could hear the men coughing and the distant, muffled sound of commands being shouted. He heard the crack of a rifle and then another, something whistled passed his ear. Suddenly he was enveloped in a cold damp cloak of cloud. He could no longer see or hear anything from the castle below, a ghostly silence surrounded him as he hung from the ladder rungs.

The cold began to eat into his muscles and he put extra vigour into his climb. Cold droplets formed in his hair and on his face, the wooden rungs of the ladder became wet and slippery, he griped even tighter with aching, frozen, fingers. He felt alone and almost as if he could step from the ladder and just float away wrapped in cold wet cloud. A hand shot down from above and grabbed his wrist, gripping him firmly, Captain Legate pulled him up on to the Valiant's gantry.

Edward was shivering as he pushed his way into the now decidedly cramped cabin. It was at least warmed by the number of bodies there. Percy was laid out on the map table while Rob held the priest in a corner. Edward stood, water dripping from his clothes.

"Here, wrap yourself in this," said Carmine, handing Edward a rough blanket. She helped him put it around his shoulders and began rubbing his arms to help put some life back into them.

"Th-th-th-thanks," shivered Edward.

As soon as he was warm enough though, Edward slipped from the cabin and made his way forward to the ship's bridge.

"Where are we bound?" he asked the Valiant's Captain.

"We are to dock with the Countess of Wetherby just off the cost of Spain in about five hours time Sir," replied the Captain.

It was not to be the comfiest journey Edward had spent aboard the Valiant. The close confines of the Valiant's only passenger cabin and Brother Sancticus's ill temper combined with a lack of sleep had everyone on edge, except Ra Chet, who stood patiently and silently, back against the wall. On the whole they all showed restraint and fortitude and despite his attitude, they all managed not to punch Brother Sancticus, who seemed to make it is mission to either convert or annoy them the entire journey.

Eventually their ordeal was over and in clear Atlantic skies a hundred mile out from the Spanish coast, the Valiant docked with the Countess of Wetherby. The weary band of adventurers gratefully disembarked and made their way to the apartments.

Despite his own tiredness Edward, however, could not rest until he knew if they had a lead on Darkmere. On the bridge, Captain Echart was at the wheel.

"Captain," greeted Edward.

"Good to see you are safe your Highness," replied Echart, "We were not sure about your message, we wondered if it was a trap."

"Lucky for us you took the risk," replied Edward. "Any news of Darkmere?"

"There is indeed your Highness. The Duke's agents have discovered Darkmere's airship, the Black Hawk, filed a shipping schedule with the London dock authorities just last night. Her stated intent is delivery of luxury goods to the Imperial airship port at Mangalore on the South East coast of India. We calculate they will reach port six hours ahead of us at least."

"You mean we are on our way there now?"

"Yes," replied Echart, "a bit of luck there actually your Highness, as we were already bound for Mangalore, with a cargo of cotton cloth and a new steam engine for the transcontinental railway."

"Are Professor Van Klees or my Uncle aboard?" asked Edward.

"Neither I'm afraid," replied Echart. "The Professor, who knows where he is? Your Uncle is in England on business and not due to come aboard until we return to England next week. You should get some rest your Highness. It is several days to Mangalore. I will keep you fully informed of our progress."

Edward thanked the Captain and made his way to his apartments. Someone had laid out a simple meal of cheese, bread and fruit and after a few bites of this simple fare an exhausted Edward lay down on the large bed and in a moment was fast asleep.

When he awoke he was unaware of how long he had slept for. He washed and dressed in a plain white shirt and britches before going in search of the others. Entering the gym, he found Rob and Captain Legate practising sword technique. At first they didn't notice him watching them. First one, then the other, parried and thrust, moving like dancers as they circled each other looking for a suitable weakness in the others' guard. Their swords clashed in a vigorous bout and taking advantage of a momentary loss of balance on Rob's part Captain Legate tripped him and in an instant had his sword point at the boy's throat.

 Edward, leaning against the wall, applauded the Captain's victory. "That's a rather nasty trick," said Edward as his friend climbed to his feet.

"Sword fighting may be sport for young gentlemen," replied the Captain, offering his hand to Rob, "but on the battlefield there is no room for fine gestures and fancies, it is life or death,  anything which gives you an advantage over your opponent should be used. How is it said? all is fair in love and war."

"Well old man," said Rob, "you give away your best moves, I think soon it will be me besting you with your own tactics."

"That is the general idea," laughed the Captain. "So Edward, how are you feeling today? Well rested I hope?"

"Rested and eager to catch Darkmere," replied Edward.

"We will have to exercise some patience there I fear," said the Captain, "We are stuck on this boat for a few days yet. Let us use this time to our advantage and improve our skills, will you take me on with your blade?"

Edward eagerly leapt to the sword rack and selecting a fine weapon. He took up his place facing Legate.  Edward fought well with a controlled energy giving the Captain a good fight until, seeing what he thought was an opening which would allow him to use the Captain's own technique against him Edward moved to trip the Captain, only to find himself flat on his back and the Captain laughing at him.

"Nice try my young prince, but the sword is a weapon that must be used with intelligence as well as vigour. Knowing you had seen my trick used against Rob I felt sure you would try to get me with it, and I used that knowledge to lure you into a trap." He held out his hand to help Edward back to his feet.

They continued their practice for a good hour, by which time they had all gained a good appetite and Edward returned to his rooms to change his shirt before re-joining the others. While brushing his hair in the dressing table looking-glass he noticed a small bookcase and a bureaux against the wall behind him. Feeling that a book might help him while away some of the time aboard he approached the bookcase.

At first glance none of the books took his fancy, but he picked one up anyway and flicked through its pages. Then he stopped, and turned to the first page again. Stuck to the inside front cover was a label which had printed on it the words 'this book belongs to..." below which sat a black box with little square motifs at each corner and in the middle a hand written name, Richard York.

The book had belonged to his father. His father had read the tale of Ivanhoe, his father had held this book. Edward began looking behind the covers of the other books and found several more that had been owned by his father. So his father had used these apartments. A thought occurred to him and he opened the bureaux lowering the front cover which became a writing desk. The little draws were full of the usual things, ink, feathers, crisp clean writing paper, envelopes, blotting paper and and blotting sand, paper clips and rubber bands, the usual things. In one draw he found a beautiful gold nibbed fountain pen, inlayed with pearl and bearing the initial R.Y. in gold on the cap. Edward wondered if the bureaux held any further secrets, after all, his father appeared to have had a liking for secret rooms and intriguing devices. Edward began to methodically prod and tug, he scrutinised every knot of wood, each spring and draw. Then he found it, a small metal rod hidden behind one of the draws, looking for all the world like a loose nail. Carefully Edward extended a finger into the hole recently occupied by the draw and wiggled the nail with his finger tip.

The nail moved upwards with a faint click. Edward again inspected the bureaux but found nothing. He was beginning to think that perhaps it had just been a loose nail, when he spotted a small rectangle sticking out of the side of the bureaux, where before ,there had been only smooth wood. He reached down the side and pulled at the rectangle which slid out to reveal a shallow draw and in the draw, lay a leather-bound notebook.

Edward carefully lifted the book from its resting place and took it over to a chair. The cover of simple leather was unmarked, a leather lace sewn into the spine tied the book tight shut. Edward drew the knot and opened the book.

There was no ex-libiris label this time. Each page was crammed with compact handwriting,  diagrams and illustrations, all painstakingly drawn with a draughtsman’s pen. The author remained anonymous, but given the nature of the notes, this was hardly surprising for the book seemed to hold proofs about the activities of the Guardians of the One Tree.

Edward was interrupted by a knock on his door, and Chesterton entered. "Everyone is taking a little repast in the observation lounge Sir, they thought perhaps you would care to join them?"

Edward tied the book closed and put it in his pocket, following Chesterton to the observation lounge, he intended to devote some time to the book at the next chance.

Over the following days Edward fell into an easy rhythm of morning exercise, light lunch and studying the book in the afternoons. Evenings were taken up with discussing various plans for rescuing Lady Emily.

Although the author of the little leather book had chosen to remain anonymous, Edward believed it to be the work of his father. The book was, by its nature, a notebook and therefore without order to its layout, however Edward was able to piece together some of the story it told.

The book claimed the Guardians had once been Templar Knights, until the end of the seventh Crusade. As Jerusalem fell to Abu al-Futuh the last few Templars fled, al-Futuh's men close at their heels. They escaped into the desert where they eventually evaded al-Futuh and there they wondered for many days and nights, their numbers growing fewer by the day as the desert took its toll on them.

By pure chance on their fifth day in the desert they came across a small monastery of just five Brothers of the Order of Light. Here they found food and water and one of the Brothers, a Cecil De Caran, found ready ears for his words. Brother De Caran, a zealot, had been studying texts reputed to have come from the great library at Alexandria, artefacts that had been saved from the flames at extreme risk.

In these books he claimed, lay great knowledge, powerful knowledge, wisdom too great for ordinary men to hold. De Caran persuaded the Templars that they had been sent across the desert by God, to help him guard this knowledge, that between them, the Order and the Knights alone should be allowed to wield such power, to hold such knowledge. So the Knights had a new mission, to seek out knowledge, to bring it back to the safety of the Monastery, and to destroy those who had possessed it.

Using ideas from the books and perhaps some creativity on the Brother's part, the Order created a number of items for the Guardians to use in their work. Of particular interest at the time was a tubular device which when filled with a magic powder could throw a small lead ball a great distance. With this and other murderous tools the Guardians, accompanied by two of the Brothers, one of whom was perhaps De Caran himself, left the Monastery and made their way, with many adventures, back to Europe where they founded a new Monastery and began to secretly recruit members.

The notebook was unclear as to the exact location of the European Monastery, though a short list of possibilities was given. Some of the notebook was unintelligible to Edward and appeared to be written in a strange language composed of symbols, letters and numbers all jumbled together. Many of the entries consisted of a note about someone, and a diagram or illustration with an explanation of their work. An early entry was about a man called Roger Bacon and referred to a book, the Epistola, which disappeared at the time of his unexpected death. This book, the note said had contained amongst other things, a recipe for the magic powder and an explanation of the nature of light.

There were more such entries with the names of men and women Edward had never heard of. One entry which caught his eye spoke of bright-energy and the suspicions surrounding the  deaths of a Frenchman called Voltaire, and a new world colonist, a B. Franklin, both of whom, according to the notebook, had been working on the phenomenon. This entry was accompanied by a diagram of something Edward recognised, something he had seen before, the bright-energy vessels, which the book called, Leyden jars, which powered the secret rooms under Apethorpe Manor.

Another device he recognised was the bright-energy inter-locution device which the note said had been discovered or invented by a Nikola Tesla and described its workings and general manufacture. There was no indication in the notebook as to how the author came to know these things, nor where the missing reference texts were, but it was clear that much of this knowledge had fallen into the hands of the Brotherhood.

The following day the airship approached Mangalore and began to loose hight until it floated a thousand feet above the azure blue Indian seas and the temperature in the cabins began to climb steadily to a tropical intensity.

Chesterton laid out a light linen suit and a straw boater which Edward found to be cool and airy to wear though his sword looked a little out of place. On his way to the observation lounge to assemble with the others he decided to look in at the Abbay room and pay the Countess a visit.

She was, as usual, humming quietly to herself, the eyes in her golden face closed. Ra Chet was there, standing silently to one side and it was easy to believe that they might somehow be communing in some secret machine way, or simply sleeping. As he approached the unbelievably intricate arraignment of cogs, rods, rockers, dampers and springs of which the Countess was composed, her eyes opened with a gentle click and she spoke.

"Edward York, it is good to see you again. I had hoped you would pay me a visit while you were aboard."

"How could I not Countess?" replied Edward.

"I have something you may need," said the Countess, as the sound of cogs turning and ticking came from behind her golden face. Several pieces of paper spooled from a printing slot on her control panel.

"These are travel documents I have devised for you, you may find them useful if the local authorities question you."

Edward picked up the papers and folding them carefully put them in his pocket.

"Thank you Countess," he said.

"I'm glad you brought Ra Chet, it has been some years since we last saw each other. There is something comforting I find about his company but you should both go now, we approach Mangalore and you still have a long journey ahead of you," with that she closed her eyes and returned to her quiet repose. At the same moment Ra Chet opened his.

"I am wound tight Edward, ready to serve," he said.

The two of them made their way along the richly carpeted corridor to the observation lounge where the others waited. Rob and Captain legate both wearing jodhpurs and riding boots with white cotton shirts. Carmine wore a typical English woman's outfit, long skirt, lacy blouse and a large brimmed straw hat with numerous dried flowers and the like tied round the rim with a bright blue ribbon.

Behind them stood the bright blue sea and golden sands of the Indian shore the Imperial port of Mangalore growing closer with every moment. A field of aerostatic towers stood at one end of the vast wooden docks, which stretched along the coast. Hundred of sea ships passed below, some steaming in or out of port, others anchored offshore awaiting a berth. Dockside cranes, from this height looking like child's toys, hoisted cargoes on and off the waiting vessels. The tiny figures of the dock workers with their dark skin and bright white shirts, busily moving about, here and there a cluster of red jacked men stood idly by watching the activity.

The Countess of Wetherby floated serenely over it all and came to rest at the largest tower on  Mangalore's airfield.
