Chapter 4 – Badger's Den
Edward found it very strange living with the Badger gang at first. He'd never experienced life like this before. His new life, as a highwayman, was very different from his old one as an engineer's apprentice at the Orphanage. Though the gang accepted him as one of their own Edward was reluctant to tell them about his fears of assassination, real or imagined, he was unsure why, but it seemed prudent to keep thoughts on the matter to himself for now.

With the Magistrate’s bills in their pockets the Badger gang was in no hurry to go out robbing. instead they entertained themselves with a little rabbit or pheasant poaching and an apparently endless supply of cheep beer bought, of course, with the Magistrate's money. The younger woman, Ruth, found Edward some old blankets and with a little straw made him a place to bed down in the same room as Rob. It wasn't so much a room as a large hole gouged out of the bare rock, but it was warm with a blanket hung over the entrance, and large enough for the two of them to sleep.

There appeared to be no rules for Edward to follow nor duties for him to perform. Boss Badger had warned, that he shouldn't go wondering about outside the cave without a guide, but this seemed to be more about not getting lost in the woods or drawing attention to the cave's existence, than about imprisonment. Indeed Edward found himself free to explore the cave dwelling to his heart's content.

Besides the main room which led to the stables and the kitchen, there was a storage room with crooked shelves holding assorted junk, anything from a tin of ham to a rusty scythe blade without the handle. There were dusty crates, some empty, some containing, Edward knew not. A pile of clothing, blankets and old shoes sat in a corner and it was from this that Edward suspected dear Ruth had found his bedding.

The stairs in the main room were rickety and they creaked and groaned when stepped upon. These led to a small platform and a door, beyond which, a second, smaller room appeared to be formed from a natural space in the rock just as the main room was. It was long and narrow with a low rocky ceiling with one side made of bare exposed earth. Several chambers had been dug from the soil, one of which was the room Edward shared with Rob. Of the other two dirt chambers, the women had the next largest, and the men shared the final one, though the men often slept in the main room, heads resting on the beer stained table. At the far end of the narrow room a small hole in the ceiling had a ladder lent against it which went up into a hidden hut constructed on the hillside above the entrance to the cave.

The hide on the hill gave a good view of the woods which lay before the cave. On a three trunk next to the hut someone had nailed short batons of wood to for a crude ladder and high up in the trees' thick branches a lookout post had been made from bits of crate and canvass, which provided some protection from the elements. The lookout post fascinated Edward and when he wasn't playing draughts down in the main chamber with the old man he was up in the lookout with Rob surveying the surrounding countryside.

Edward soon formed a strong friendship with Rob, their similarity in age and their fascination with being up the lookout soon made them inseparable. Rob's quiet patience manner and quick strong actions complemented Edward's own enthusiastic exploration of his new world. Rob told Edward that Betsie was his Mother and Boss Badger was his step-Father. He didn't know what had happened to his real Father, though he thought he was dead, probably hung as as a robber and that the other men were local lads who had, in one way or another, fallen on the foul side of the law and taken sanctuary in Boss Badger's cave hideout. Ruth was Johnny's little sister and though she'd done nothing untoward, Johnny had brought her so the local Constable couldn't use her to get at him.

From the lookout Rob pointed out the main landmarks which could be seen from the tree. To the north over the distant hill lay Blacksteel. To the East the village of Clayside. Running along the valley below the road, along which they watched the farmers with their hay-carts, the farm labourers walking with tools slung over their shoulders and the postal steam-car passed once a day and which, Rob said, you could set your watch by, though neither of them had such an item to set.

Sometimes after the main meal Edward played draughts with old man Pops. He'd never played the game before. The draughts board looked as old as the man, in places the thin veneer had cracked and splintered so there were more black squares than white. Every draught piece was chipped and worn and several had been replaced by washers or buttons. The old man would set out the pieces with care, then sit back and fill a crooked pipe with a pungent tobacco, before making his opening move. When he'd seen Edward take an interest in the game he immediately offered to teach him, a new opponent always a welcome challenge.

Although he felt safe for now Edward, was concerned for Anna, and often wondered what might have happened to her. He was also intrigued by the Imperial Agent's letter and particularly keen to compare it to the one he kept hidden in the little leather purse he wore around his neck. So one night as Pops was clearing Edwards draughts off the board he asked him.

"Pop's have you still got the Magistrate's letter?" asked Edward.

"Why would you be interested in such a thing?" replied Pops. "It's as like you can't read anyway."

Edward could read. Though tough, the Orphanage provided a basic education to the younger children in its care. Until he turned twelve Edward had been schooled in reading, writing and counting every morning, afternoons were spent learning the skills of the weaving trade, these had been very hands on kinds of lessons.

"I can read." Edward stated flatly.

"I see." the old man puffed on his pipe. "Then you think I didn't tell it proper then?" He narrowed his eyes suspiciously.

"No Pops." Edward protested. "It's just that, well I have a letter too and I wanted to see if there were any similarities."

"Is that so." said the old man slowly. "Well what about, I'll show you mine if you show me yours?"

It wasn't an idea that Edward was keen on but it seemed the only way he was going to get a look at the Agent's letter so pretending to go up to his sleeping chamber he came back down with the letter. He kept it folded in four then folded again in the original manner which was formed of a clever fold that kept the paper held tight like a little envelope. On the exposed sides of the letter the paper had become brown with age but unfolded the paper inside was almost as clean and creamy as the day it had been written. The writing had been done with a fountain pen and was in a flowing hand. Edward carefully peeled open his letter and flattened it out before passing it to the old man. In return the old man passed Edward the Agents letter.

The first thing Edward noticed about the Agent's letter was it written in English. He was disappointed. He'd hoped the agent's letter would be written in the same language as his own letter, and therefore, the old man could have deciphered it.

"What's this rubbish?" said Pops waiving Edward's letter at him. "This some sort of joke?"

"No Pops." replied Edward. That letter was left me by my Mother, or so I'm told. It's the only thing of hers I have. I hoped you might be able to read it."

Pops looked back at the writing and scratched his head. "No son. I don't know what this says, if anything. What about my letter?"

Edward read it again. "It says what you said." Edward confirmed. He began folding it up again and as he did so he noticed the wax seal. There was something about it that struck him but he couldn't think what. He gave the rich red wax a second look, pushing the two halves of it together. The image impressed in the brittle wax was of a shield with feathers and a crown. Either side of the shield stood two rampant beasts, a lion and a unicorn. The shield was divided into quarters each with a tiny image. These were so small that it wasn't easy to tell what they were, though one seemed to be three wavy lines and another the head of a boar.

"The Imperial seal." said Pops seeing Edward's interest. "See the horse and the lion? They're the Imperial marks and the bits inside the shield tell which department it came from." he explained.

Then it hit Edward just why the seal had vexed him so. The lion and the unicorn, he'd seen them before, holding a shield just as this one. His ring, that was where he'd seen them before. He tried to keep his shock and excitement from his face and voice and solemnly, and somewhat reluctantly, handed the Agent's letter back to Pops. With the excuse that he was off to hide his letter again Edward went up the ladder into the daylight to better take a look at his ring.

There were several differences. Firstly the unicorn and the lion were on the opposite sides of the shield. On the wax seal the lion had been on the right and on his ring, the lion was on the left, but both beasts were otherwise identical. The feathers seemed a little different and the shield had a diagonal sash across it adorned by three diamonds. The little figures in the four quarters also seemed different to Edward. So he had an Imperial ring. What did it mean? He tucked the ring and his letter back into their pouch and hide them again under his shirt. He would have think about that.

Several days later while Edward was sitting up the lookout, watching the road below, Rob came clambering up the tree.

"Eddy, Eddy, Boss Badger wants us to go into Clayside Village and get him some more beer." Rob told him excitedly. "This is a chance to show you round the village, and look, Boss Badger has given me some money, five pound three shillings and some odd pennies." He held out the note and the coins in both hands, for Edward to see.

As this was Edward's first chance to leave the cave since he'd arrived he leapt at the opportunity and the two boys swung down from the tree and raced each other through the cave to the stables.

"We can take this one." said Rob indicating the oldest saggiest horse in the stable, a large grey mare called Strawberry. He patted her affectionately before throwing a rope halter round her neck. Rob leapt up onto Strawberry's bare back and offered Edward a hand. Edward scrambled up onto the patient beast and with a little goading from Rob the horse began to walk from of the cave down through the woods.

"We'd better keep off the road till we're near the village." Rob said guiding Strawberry between oak and sycamore trees. 

Edward was pleased to be outside in the open woodland. Except for the twice yearly orphan's outing, once at the beginning of Summer and once at the end, Edward had spent his entire life inside the walls of Blacksteel Orphanage. The outings had been the highlight of the orphan's calendar, a whole afternoon running around a local farmer's field while the gentry looked on benevolently. The Blacksteel Women's Guild organised the outings so, at the end of the day there was always a piece of cake each for the children.

The horse carried the boys along a little beck and through a grassy clearing filled with poppies and hollyhocks. Butterflies fluttered in front of them and rich woodland scents filled their nostrils. After a while the woodland began to give way to open fields and Rob took the horse onto the road for the final part of the journey to the village.

Strawberry was clop clopping slowly and steadily along the roadside when Rob suddenly dug Edward in the ribs and pointed excitedly into the air.

"Do you see that Eddy?" asked Rob. He pointed at a dark object coming over the tree line behind the village. At first it was difficult to make out, but as they approached the village they saw the dark object more clearly.

"It's an airship." Rob said almost reverently.

Edward had seen such things once or twice before. Very occasionally, one would pass over the orphanage, an event that sent the children running excitedly into the yard to point and gesture until Mrs. Thackery or Mr. Sniderby ordered everyone back to their duties.

This one had a large grey fat cigar shaped gas bag, underneath which hung a black gondola the size of a small sailing ship. Sunlight gleamed off the brass fittings and round glass portholes which regularly punctured the long wooden hull. An open gantry ran the sides of the airship along which stood soldiers placed at regular intervals wearing black uniforms. On the gantry just a thin railing of wire stood between them and a fall to certain death. The airship was one of the most majestic things Edward had ever seen.

"That's a hawk class ship." Rob told Edward. "You can tell by the number of portholes and the figurehead at the front."

The airship passed gracefully over them heading in the direction of Blacksteel. The boys were twisting in their seats so much to get a good view of the receding airship that they almost walked their poor horse into the back of a hay cart.

"Watch out there you." The driver of the cart called at the boys as Rob encouraged Strawberry around the obstruction and into the centre of the village. It was a typical English village with a small green forming both the physical and spiritual centre of the community. The important things of village life were seated around the edges of the green. At one end the church, on one side the public house and on the other, the post office, on the far side of the green, the Manor house.

Rob guided Strawberry over to the public house and tied her up outside leaving Edward to find his own way off the beast back. By the time he finally struggled down Rob had disappeared inside the building. Edward followed him in with some trepidation, he'd never been in a place like this before, though he'd heard stories.

Rob was already sat on a wooden stool at the bar two pints of dark brew sat on the rough hewn wood which ran along one side of the room. It smelt sticky sweet, of tobacco and stale beer.

"This your friend then?" the barman asked Rob.

"Aye, he's me mate." Rob confirmed taking a manly swig of his beer and wiping his mouth with the back of his sleeve. "Come and have a pint." he invited Edward.

They drank their glasses half empty then Rob said. "Right we need two kegs of this and a bottle of port for Betsie."

The barman rolled out two kegs which the boys tied together with rope and lifted over the horse's back.

"thirsty work that." Rob grinned, the first half pint beginning to work on him. "Lets drink up and be on our way."

They finished their pints and after a little clowning around managed to regain their seats on the back of their horse and began the return journey.

Though Edward had never drunk before in his life, the Badger gang had soon introduced him to the delights of beer and had had much merriment watching him stagger round the cave the first time he got drunk. They'd drunk beer nightly since then and Edward was becoming quite used to it. Flushed with alcohol infused enthusiasm the boys chatted animatedly about the airship they'd seen until they turned off the road back into the woods.

Soon they were both feeling woozy and tired and became slumped in their seats as the old horse patiently continued to take them toward home. Eventually the ground began to rise and they approached the cave entrance.

Edward was the first to notice something wrong. A smell hung in the trees that wasn't right, a smell of burning and singed fat. He looked up to see a pall of smoke rising from the hill above the cave.

"Something is wrong Rob," Edward said, "very wrong."

Rob stirred himself in his seat and looked up. He sat bolt upright and began urging Strawberry to speed. As they approached the cave entrance it was clear that something terrible had happened. Dark smoke and flame poured out of the cave entrance rising gravely into the sky. Rob jumped from the horse's back and rushed to the cave disappearing into the smoke.

Edward jumped down from the horse and approached more cautiously. Even as he came close to the entrance Rob came running back out coughing and choking his face black with soot and streaked with tears.

"I can't get inside, it's too hot." Rob coughed. Once he'd caught his breath and recovered a little the two boys scrambled round the hill to the hide on top. Here smoke poured out in thick black puffs and it was clear they weren't going to gain entry that way either.

"Who's done this?" Rob asked sitting on the ash covered grass. "Why? Why would they do this? I bet it's that Magistrate or that Agent. I'll get'em, I will." He sobbed into his coat sleeve. Edward said nothing. What could he say that would comfort his friend? He sat down next to him and waited.

As darkness began to fall the fire inside began to fail as most of the available fuel was burnt up and the boys were eventually able to force their way into the stable and the main room beyond. In the stark flickering light of the small fires which were the remains of the rickety stairs and table the boys were able to see that the place was completely destroyed and anyone who had been in there at the time would undoubtedly have been burn to a crisp. There was nothing worth salvaging.

"We should get away from here as soon as possible." said Edward. "Whoever did this might come back."

"Where are we going to go?" asked Rob, rubbing his eyes and straightening his coat.

"I don't know. Anywhere away from here. At least for a while." begged Edward.

The boys clambered back onto Strawberry and began to ride south away from both Blacksteel and Clayside. They'd not gone far when Rob spotted a dark shape lying on the ground. Jumping down from the horse he approached the hunched shape, which to Edward's surprise let out a moan.

It was Boss Badger and he was badly injured. Rob helped him into a sitting position while Edward brought him some of the beer from the kegs slung across Strawberry's back.

"You're good lads." Boss Badger wheezed when he'd had a sip or two from the tin mug Edward offered.

"They came so quickly, from the airship, falling like black flowers on gossamer threads." Boss Badger coughed. "Caught us unawares they did. The lads and I fought 'em got a couple even but they were too many. I managed to escape but they killed everyone else, everyone of 'em." He coughed again and a dark liquid dribbled from his mouth, liquid too dark to be beer.

"No Boss." Rob shook the man causing him to cough again.

"Get away from here boys." Boss Badger said with his dying breaths. "You've an uncle in Tewkesbury lad." He said to Rob. "Get to Tewkesbury Docks and find your Uncle Billy." Boss coughed again and his head fell limply on his chest.

"No, no Boss. Don't die on me." Rob wailed tears streaming down his face but the man lay still as a grave and replied no more. They stayed the night beside the body of Derek Badger and in the morning when his corpse was stiff and cold, they piled rocks and sticks on him. They stood a while paying silent respect then, with tears streaming down his dirt smeared face, Rob swore vengeance on those who had killed his family.
