Chapter 2 – Escape from Blacksteel
Feeling beaten and bruised from the previous day's accident, Edward sat on the long wooden refectory bench in front of the long wooden table with the other Orphans, sitting in order by age, the youngest at one end, the eldest at the other. Edward sat at the end of his bench with Anna opposite him. At the far end of the table the youngest could barely contained their hunger, scraping spoons around empty bowls in sympathy with the groans of hunger from their little empty bellies.

Once grace had been said, the orphans on serving duty began their rounds, slopping watery porridge into wooden bowls and passing the meagre fare up the table. Soon the large brick room was full of the sound of wooden spoon on wooden bowl and the grateful mews of orphans with something at last in their stomachs.

Edward had know Anna as long as he could remember.  He knew well her pretty brown hair loosely tied with a ribbon, her gentle bubbling laughter, her care and concern for the younger children, and her generosity with the few possessions she had. She was his greatest confidant and his oldest friend.

"Anna, Anna," Edward hissed across the table. "I need to talk to you after breakfast. I'll come and see you at the mill."

"I'm in shed three today," she hissed back before returning her attention to her bowl.

After breakfast Edward loitered in the work-yard, near shed number three, until the coast seemed clear then he slipped through a snicket door cut into one of the larger main doors of the shed. The shed was unusually quiet. Normally the sound of the looms working was near deafening, with the click clack of running shuttles, and the shoink shoink of the frames as they past weft and warp threads. Today the room was almost silent, except, in the far corner behind the looms, he could hear the muffled voices of idle loom workers.

Edward sneaked a peek round the corner of a loom with a half finished swath still held in its thread lined jaws and saw Mrs. Thackery ordering the girls to sweep the floor and polish shuttles.

Mrs. Thackery was liked no better than Mr. Sniderby. Where he used the stick, she used her tongue and ruled the sheds with a cold heart. Unlike Sniderby she was cruel and took a perverse pleasure in dishing out humiliating and painful tasks to any girl who got on the wrong side of her. How often she had one of her wards in tears with fingers bleeding from scrubbing the floor or threading looms.

"There's no excuse for slackness just because the mill isn't powered. This isn't a day off you know." She told the girls. "It's a good opportunity to get this shed spick and span. I don't want to find one loose thread on this floor." The girls ran about their pointless tasks and began brushing and scrubbing the floor while Mrs. Thackery looked on, her large arms folded sternly across her ample bosom, her tiny glasses perched on the end of her sharp nose, her beady greedy eyes peeking over the tops of the sharp lenses.

Edward caught Anna's eye as she set to, scrubbing a spotless patch of board, he waived her over toward a secluded window. Pushing her bucket and scrubbing as she went Anna made her way across the room.

"I've got to get out of here," he whispered through the window. "Tonight. I need to escape the Orphanage tonight. And I've come to warn you."

"What about? Why? You can't get out, they lock the gates at night. You'll be for it if they catch you trying. Where will you go?" asked Anna.

"You wont believe me if I tell you, but I think I'm in danger, maybe you are too," insisted Edward. "I don't think yesterday was an accident, someone's trying to kill me."

"How do you know?" asked Anna, "You must be wrong, it can't be."

"I, I have receive a warning, and I know something strange is going on, I overheard Sniderby talking to one of engineers about an Imperial Agent being sent here."

"An Imperial Agent?" hissed Anna. "Are you sure you're all-right, you had a terrible accident yesterday. Did you bang your head?"

"I'm fine. Its not my head. I came to warn you and tell you I'm leaving tonight." Edward replied. "I'm going to scout around and see how I might get out."

"Where will you go? You haven't any money," asked Anna.

"I don't know, I'll find somewhere," replied Edward.

"You don't know anywhere except this place. You probably don't even know the streets around here," insisted Anna.

"I've got to go, there are too many things, don't you think it a bit suspicious, about Henry's death? and then yesterday. I was trapped in the engine room Anna, someone trapped me in there and blocked the main valve. That was no accident I'm sure. I'm sure the Imperial Agent put one of the engineers up to it."

"You still don't have anywhere to go," Anna pointed out.

"I don't know, I might have somewhere, I'm not sure," said Edward fingering the small leather pouch he always wore on a string around his neck.

Anna noticed his gesture. "That ring and old note don't have an address on them," she pointed out.

"I think the local Magistrate might help me," said Edward.

"Now why would he do that?" asked Anna.

"It was something I overheard, something about the Agent not trusting the Magistrate so I think the Magistrate might know something. He might be able to help," Edward reasoned.

"I can't come with you Edward, it's far too dangerous," said Anna. "I don't know what I'd do."

"I'm not asking you to come with me. Just be on the lookout for yourself. I think there is danger here too."

Over Anna's shoulder Edward saw Mrs. Thackery approach, "Thackery's coming over, I'm off." He gave Anna a quick kiss on the cheek and slipped away from the window just as Mrs. Thackery, with a voice like a giant crow, cawed behind him. "Now then Anna Blacksteel, that'll be the cleanest corner of the mill, now make the rest of it the same. There can't be anything out there as is more interesting than here."

Edward walked slowly across the yard towards the ruins of the engine shed. The door lay where it had been thrown on the floor and cold grey daylight poured in through a hole blasted in the roof. The power wheel had come free of its fittings and lay twisted at an angle between the engine and the cold stone wall.

"There you are boy." Edward heard Sniderby's voice across the yard and turned to see the man striding towards him. "I've been looking for you. The donkeys and the tread wheel assembly are arriving, get down to the gatehouse and wait there."

"Yes Sir," Edward said as he trotted off towards the gatehouse at the far end of the yard.

"And I don't want you poking round in the engine shed again either," Sniderby called after him.

At the gatehouse there was no sign of the donkeys which gave Edward time to start looking around. He knew of the day gatekeeper, a broad surly man, Braithwaite, with a bad temper, known mostly for leaning out of the gatehouse window and shouting at the Orphans to get away from the gate.

Braithwaite spotted Edward and put his head out of the window. "Oy you, get away from those gates, your not allowed." He bellowed at Edward who trotted over to the window.

"Please, Mr. Braithwaite Sir, Mr. Sniderby told me to come and wait here for the donkeys Sir," said Edward.

"Did he now," Braithwaite grumbled into his beard scratching his head just under the grimy band of his official hat with an even grimier finger then he straightened his dark blue jacket and said "We'll see about that. You'd better not be lying to me boy."

"No Sir, Please Sir, Mr. Sniderby told me too," he pleaded.

"Very well, but I'll be asking Mr. Sniderby when I see him, which will be soon. I don't suppose he'll be wanting to wait long for his donkeys," Braithwaite hypothesised.

"No Sir. Thank you Mr. Braithwaite Sir," Edward said standing smartly by the window as if poised to escort a donkey at a moments notice.

The two waited a minute the one leaning casually on his window ledge, the other at attention and attentive of the gate then without a word Braithwaite stepped back and pulled the window half shut. Through the gap Edward could see him take a chair in the simple room and he picked up a mug of something warm. Outside in the yard a cold wind blew tugging at the loose legs of Edward's tattered trousers. He wrapped the strip of old blanket he used as a scarf tighter round his neck and pulled up the collar of his woollen jacket as far as it would go. Pulling the thin blue cotton cap down further he pushed his hands into his pockets. Every so often he had to dance from foot to foot and blow on his fingers to keep them warm and when he did this, Braithwaite looked up from his mug, then back down.

Eventually Edward heard the clatter of hoof on stone as the donkeys came up the road. Braithwaite was suddenly all action, straightening his hat and brushing imaginary dust, and none of the very real grease, from his jacket. Edward saw him turn and take a metal ring from a hook on the wall, a large key hung from the ring.

The donkeys were pressing against the gate making it shift and groan before the drover realised his donkeys could continue no further, he then pushed through the crowd of short haired four legged beasts and began shouting through the gate.

"You want these donkeys or what? I've not wasted my time driving these brutes up here for nothing, I want paying whether you take them or not" shouted the Drover.

"Now don't you worry yourself none." Braithwaite shouted back as he strutted out of the gatehouse. "We want those donkeys and you'll be allowed in, in the proper fashion, we have ways of doing thing here Mr." he said lifting the heavy iron flap which covered the lock and pushd the large key into the keyhole. The key turned with a hefty clunk. Braithwaite bent to lift the gate latch securing the left gate to the ground and the eager donkeys pressed on the right gate swinging it open and almost knocking Brathwaite down.

"Now look here," he fumed. "Just you keep them donkeys under control."

Edward had a hard time not laughing but knowing it would be ill received, he managed to keep a straight face and attempted to corral the donkeys despite not knowing the first thing about donkeys. His actions caught the attention of the drover.

"Oy you boy, What do you think your doing? Don't wave about like that you'll upset the donkeys," he shouted at Edward.

"Sorry Sir," Edward called back and restricted his flapping to that necessary to keep himself warm.

Eight donkeys trotted past Edward and stood about the yard aimlessly braying while the last four donkeys were paired off, each pair hauling a cart with a tread wheel on it. The engineers came hurrying down the yard with Sniderby puffing along behind them.

"Get them donkeys under control," Sniderby shouted at Edward who was trotting after loose donkeys with no idea how to control them. At the entrance to the yard Braithwaite solemnly closed and locked the gates.

With a little help from the Drover Edward manoeuvred the loose donkeys into a corner of the yard while the engineers began assembling the lrge wooden frames of the tread-wheel. 

Central to the machine's construction was the axial, mounted on a large cross, formed from two iron shod beams of wood bolted together with an iron collar. The axial was inserted into the collar and three more, long wooden bars, added to form spokes which the donkeys would pull.

The Drover began harnessing donkeys to the spokes and the engineers put the top cap on, then the four supporting bars so the structure now stood twelve feet high and looked like a canvas-less tent filled with donkeys. Finally the engineers ran a rubber and linen belt from the tread-wheel axial to the drive shaft of shed number two. The looms in the shed grumbled into life and the sound of Mrs. Thackery shouting her millers back to work came swiftly after.

Now Edward learnt what his job was, to keep the donkeys moving. The Drover gave him a stick and simple instruction how to hit a donkey to get it to move, then he was needed to clear donkeys out the way of the engineers as they assembled the second tread-wheel.

"How long do you think you'll be needing them?" asked the Drover. "I've got to get then over to Long Bottom Farm in a fortnight's time. He's already put good money down."

"I doubt it will be that long," Sniderby told him, knowing if it was that long, the drover would likely be putting his price up. "I've got a portable Neucombe Mark X engine coming from Sheffield at the end of the week, we can't last long on the paltry four horse power your donkeys give. This is a mill not a farm."

"Well if your going to be like that I can take my donkeys back," the Drover threatened though they both knew he wouldn't.

"No need to be touchy, I'm just saying, the Mark X should give us four hundred horse power, I can barely operate one shed with this set-up, let alone five. I'm loosing business hand over fist, some of our work's going to mills in Bradford and Barnsley, I can't compete against that without a proper engine," said Sniderby.

"Well I'll be back at seven o'clock, to take the donkeys to pasture all right?" The Drover said before walking over to Edward.

"Now you keep these here donkeys of mine in good shape you hear? I don't want none of my donkeys coming back bleeding or hobbling or you'll be for it right son?" the Drover threatened. Edward assured him that his donkeys would still be in the finest condition come night fall and was told that they'd better be.

The rest of the day was spent trudging around and around the tread-wheels, encouraging the donkeys along with a little carrot and a little stick. It wasn't as easy as the Drover had made it look, but if a tread-wheel faltered for a moment a cry would come from shed number two as Mrs. Thackery called out for more power. By the time night fell Edward had got the hang of the donkeys, he'd acquired just the right kind of arm waive to keep them walking without startling or frightening them and the work became considerably easier. He could have done it sitting on the edge of the loading bay but not wanting to attract attention he meandered casually round and round the tread-wheels with the donkeys, which had the added benefit of keeping him warm.

Eventually he heard the rattle of Braithwaite's key in the gates and the sound of voices as the Drover returned for his beasts. Edward began unhitching the donkeys from the tread-wheels while keeping the loose ones corralled.

"So where are you from?" He asked the Drover casually.

"Kettleside village, just down road here," replied the Drover.

"You're not from Blacksteel then?" asked Edward.

"No, no a town like Blacksteel is not for the likes of me, with its big houses and fancy shops down main street. No I like Kettleside, give me a nice cosy cottage and my donkeys over Blacksteel any day," said the Drover.

"Do you know where the Magistrate's house is?" asked Edward.

"Aye it's the big stone one opposite the cross in the town square." said the Drover. "Now why would a young orphan like yourself be wanting to know that?"

"No reason, I heard someone say it was a beautiful house is all," replied Edward hastily.

As they herded the donkeys towards the large iron gates an idea suddenly came to Edward.

"If you lead them along I'll herd them from behind," he suggested to the Drover. The Drover considered this for a moment, saw the soundness of it and said, "Right you are."

The Drover strode up the yard calling the donkeys. Edward chivvied them along from the rear making sure he wasn't spotted by Braithwaite, who was standing by the gatehouse smoking a small cigarette. As he drew close to the gatehouse Edward ducked down behind the last donkey and trotted past Braithwaite, and out of the gates.

The Drover turned left up the road away from town and Edward was forced to follow him a short distance before he spotted a bush suitable for hideing behind. Two swift steps and he was safely crouched out of sight behind a thick bush. The moon came out, but the clouds were black and heavy, threatening rain at any time and while there was occasional moon light, for the most part, Edward had the darkness to hide him. The donkeys clattered off up the road after the Drover and soon the quite of the night filled the road and Edward was completely alone. The Orphanage gates clanged shut.

He knew he needed to get to the Magistrate's house, which was back past the Orphanage, so he crossed the road and jumped into the ditch which ran along the side of the fields. Watery mud oozed over the tops of his thin leather boots but Edward didn't mind, he was free, he was outside the Orphanage, his heart raced a thousand miles an hour with excitement and fear. Once he put the Orphanage behind him he leapt out of the ditch and walked along the edge of the rough stone chip road. The only sounds were an owl hooting in the distance and the crunch of Edward's thin soled boots on the gravel.

After a while he heard something coming. Quickly Edward hid in the ditch and waited. A carriage came pounding up the road at a quick pace, pulled by four black horses,  their hooves beat time on the road as the harnesses slapped and jingled. Atop the carriage a driver in a wide brimmed hat with a scarf wrapped round his face, urged the horses on. The black carriage showed no sign of an occupant. It was quickly gone, passing away into the dark night and Edward climbed back out of the ditch and continued on.
