Chapter 7 – Aboard the S.S Dauntless
Edward's head ached. He struggled to open his eyes and when he did so, found the ceiling to be moving. The ceiling? He hadn't slept under a roof for some time, roof? what roof was this? Then it came flooding back to him, the card game, the sailor Nelson and the press gang. He tried to sit up but the bed he was laying on swung violently. He struggled more and was thrown right out of bed to the hard wooden floor.

He sat up, rubbed his bruised elbows and looked about him. He was in a large wooden room, a little light came through the portholes and an open doorway at the far end. Along both sides of the room hammocks were hung from wooden beams which also formed the ribs of the ship. Several of these were still occupied by sleeping forms, but most were now empty. The occupied hammocks all swung slowly first one way then gently back and the unsteadiness of the floor beneath him, told Edward that the boat he was on, was already in motion.

He felt both sick and hungry at the same time and also suffered that pressing need which comes to all upon waking. He struggled to his feet, intent on first finding Rob, then some relief. He'd just got his feet under him when a figure darkened the doorway and a familiar voice boomed our.

"Right ladies, you've all had a nice little rest this night. Your in the Navy now and the British Navy expects the best from every man jack of you. Get out of your beds and on to that deck double time." Nelson strode down the room tipping unfortunates from their string roosts and in a moment the room was filled with groaning youths rubbing their heads and protesting at their treatment.

Pulling Edward to his feet Nelson propelled him towards the door. Edward staggered out in to a locker lined corridor. Beyond the lockers stood the ships' heads where the boys gratefully relieved themselves before climbing the wooden stairs at the far end and stepping out into the cold bright sunlight of a morning on the Atlantic ocean.

This was Edwards first sight of the sea. He'd heard about it of course, but the immense open flatness of it, the unbelievably far horizon and the the lack of any landmark quite took his breath away. He felt a wrenching in his guts and was soon leaning over the ship's side emptying his stomach. There was scattered, nervous laughter from some of the boys, while others joined Edward at the rail.

"Right you lot, lets get lined up shall we?" Nelson shouted at the assembly. Two ratings in the white trousers and blue shirts of the Royal Navy began pushing and prodding the new recruits into a straight line.

Once there was order amongst the recruits, Nelson began shouting. "You are now ratings in His Majesty's Imperial Navy and as such you will conduct yourselves appropriately at all times. You will be orderly and disciplined and you will obey your orders unquestioningly. In return his gracious Majesty will reward you with a salary of one pound two shillings and six pence a week, three square meals a day, and a tot of rum. The Navy will clothe and shelter you and I will train you into the most formidable fighting force on the seven seas. Any questions?"

Edward had a few questions, amongst them, how come he was a sailor now?  But he suspected this was not the time nor place to voice them.

"No questions? Good. You will all now be issued with regulation uniform and will be required to sign for it." Nelson instructed them.

"Some of you may be wondering how it is your in the Navy now. No doubt you fully expected to wake up in the warm bosom of the family home to the tender ministerings of your sweet little white haired old mums. Let me assure you that in accordance with the law you all walked of your own volition, on your own two feet, up the gangway, albeit many of you with a little help." He laughed. "you all took the king's coin and you've all signed the contract."

The two ratings began handing out uniforms to the waiting recruits and as they did so an officer in white britches, blue top coat and a tricorn hat approached, accompanied by an old sailor.

"Hattention, officer on deck." Nelson called spying the officer.

"Good morning men. I'm lieutenant Arthbuckle. I will be overseeing the assignment of duties and basic ship's orientation. You are standing on the training deck of the SS Dauntless. She is a 22000 ton Class II iron clad Imperial Frigate. She has a steel sub-frame, and a wooden hull coppered below the waterline, with iron cladding capable of stopping a 22 inch shell. She has two 44 inch fore guns, eight 22 inch guns on each side and depth charges both fore and aft. Her 55,000 horse power Wincannon Marine steam engines are capable of speeds up to 45 knots per hour and she has some limited sail capacity provided by the fore and aft masts. We are currently headed for Colonies in the Caribbean and southern British Columbia a journey which the Dauntless is capable of doing in just six days at full speed, however we are on patrol for Spanish, French and Pirate ships. We will be joining the third fleet under the command of Admiral Latham Stoakhampton, in three days time, just north of the Canary Islands.

You will all now under go basic Naval training during which time I will assess which posts you will be filling once your training is completed. Meanwhile you are under the direct command of Petty Officer Nelson. Mr. Nelson." Lieutenant Arthbuckle turned to Nelson.

"Right you lot, you heard the officer. It's my job to knock you into shape, and into shape you will be knocked. Place your uniforms in a neat row over by those barrels then double time back here and strip." Nelson ordered as the Lieutenant walked off.

The boys raced over to the spot and left their uniforms in a row and jogged back to the line. There was some confusion about the order to strip but they soon got the idea when the ratings began to roughly disrobe one of the recruits and moments later the boys were all standing shivering and naked on the deck.

"In the Navy we have high standards of hygiene," Nelson informed them blithely and with that the ratings turned a ships hose on the recruits and began hosing down them down.

The cold water was a shock to Edwards' body, he danced and jigged and dodged with other recruits till Nelson saw fit to turn the hoses off. Now miserable, shivering and dripping wet the boys were ordered to dry off and dress in their uniforms. As no effort had been made to match man with size for his uniform there was a certain amount of dealing and swapping amongst them. Never the less there were one or two boys who had a shirt two sizes too small or trousers three sizes too big.

Over the next few days the new recruits found themselves running round the entire ship's deck, lifting weights, learning the location of important places like the galley and the arsenal. They were drilled in the basics of ships terminology, Naval practices and marine gunnery.

Though it was physically demanding and often gruelling Edward and Rob found they didn't entirely dislike it. There was a kind of delight to be had in proving physical prowess, in mastery over the new terms and ideas they were being introduced to, and though they collapsed each night in their hammocks and fell instantly into deep and dreamless sleep, though they woke each day feeling drained and sore, they exhibited aptitude for their tasks and took pride in their new abilities.

On March 5rd The Dauntless rendezvoused with the third fleet and proceeded out into the Atlantic heading for anchorage at Baytown which stood on the contested border between the British free state of Houston and French Louisiana, where the fleet was to blockade the French Colonial port of New Orleans.

The following day the new recruits were assembled on the training deck for Lieutenant Arthbuckle's inspection. Just four days training had made all the difference. The rag tag collection of men which had presented on the first day was gone, and in their place a tired but disciplined force, not yet practised in the Naval arts of war, but prepared and ready, blank canvases for the Imperial Royal Navy to write upon.

Lieutenant Arthbuckle moved up the line slowly asking each boy a few questions until it came to Edward's turn.

"Name?"

"Edward Black." replied Edward.

"Can you read or write?" asked the Lieutenant and he was already making a mark when Edward responded. "Yes Sir."

"Oh?" Lieutenant Arthbuckle raised and eyebrow but said nothing as he altered his records.

"Can you count?" he asked.

"A little." replied Edward. "I know money."

"Very good, very good. And do you have skills?"

"Skills Sir, I don't know."

"Can you do anything boy?"

"Well I know steam engines Sir. I ran the steam engine at the Orphanage, and I can set and cast a loom." Edward offered doubtfully.

"I see, I see." the Lieutenant sucked thoughtfully at the tip of the feather quill he was using to write with, before jotting down a further note.

Later, over supper, Edward and Rob were sitting squashed in the galley with the other new ratings enjoying beef stew and dumplings with a tankard of dark ale which was the evenings fare.

"So what job did you get?" asked Edward as he wiped up the last drops of greasy gravy with a bread crust.

"Marine gunner." Rob answered round a mouthful of stew. "What about you?"

"Abay Operator." replied Edward.

"What's that?" asked Rob. "Most of the lads are gunners or engine crew."

"I'm not sure, it's something to do with the ships navigation and manifest. I'm to begin training tomorrow after Marine training."

The following day after having been introduced to the finer arts of repelling borders with cutlass and hook the new ratings went to their assigned posts. For Edward this meant an exploration into a part of the ship which had until now been off limits for the ratings. Following his instructions he found the corridor that led to the helm, walked passed the polished oak doors until he came to one marked ABAE navigational. He knocked smartly and entered.

An officer stood inside the oak panelled room, while a seaman sat at a cramped control panel. The main part of the room being occupied by a large brass mechanism. It appeared to be made of a large number of brass and steel poles each of which having a number of small brass cogs mounted on it. As Edward watched the poles turned like the mad mechanics of an impossible watch clicking clockwise, then anti-clockwise, some times a pole would lift up one cog while others dropped down one cog. All the time the machine clicked and whirred and hissed and gave off little spurts of steam. The seaman continually manipulated controls which were laid out before him. A series of keys with letters and number on them, several small brass wheels and various tiny levers. From time to time a section of the machine cranked into life and a neat printed sheet of paper slid out of a slot to the seaman's right.

"Ah rating Black." The young officer said spotting Edward.

"Rating Black reporting for duty Sir." Edward said, as he'd been instructed.

"I hear you have some experience of the weaving industry." remarked the officer.

"I have experience with looms, yes, Sir." replied Edward somewhat perplexed by this.

"Good, that may come in useful. Anyway let me explain to you what were doing and what this piece of old junk here is." the officer's voice began to fill with enthusiasm for his favourite subject.

"I should mention I'm lieutenant Johnny Clayton and I'm officer in charge of the Dauntless' Advanced Babbage Analytical Engine, or Abby as we like to call her. She's this magnificent mechanism you see before you. First designed by Charles Babbage in 1845 and later modified in 1899 for Naval use by Lord Admiral Ozymandious Treshingbourn then Fleet Admiral to the Empress Victoria. She, that is Abby, not her Imperial Majesty, has over 35,000 moving parts, stands twelve feet high and weighs twenty two tons. She can perform up to seventy five calculations a minute, can you imagine that boy? Seventy five calculations a minute? What that means? It means this machine is far far more clever than you.

"As you'll have noticed from your familiarity with Jacquard loom technology, the punch card reader is over there, it's where we feed her the necessary instructions. You can see this is a complex and delicate machine and like any lady, she needs constant attention. Seaman Jones will show you the ropes, or in our case the rags and oils." Lieutenant Clayton laughed at his own joke.

"The first thing to remember." Jones told him. "Is never touch her when this little flag is down." He indicated a small brass rectangle with the word 'Calculating' stamped into the metal and painted red in the grooves. Next to it several small numbered dials slowly clicked round indicating estimated time till completion.

"I know you loom workers. You try to leap in while the things still going. Never do that with Abby here, not only'll she nip off a finger tip for you, but she's well delicate, and you'll be all night cleaning your own blood and bone out of her. Clear?"

Edward indicated he was clear on this point. Both lieutenant Clayton and Seaman Jones seemed friendly and pleasant to Edward, Sure Jones was a rough cut Seaman with plenty of experience under his belt, but beneath it he was a quick and intelligent man. The lieutenant was devoted to, and passionate about, the machine he was in command of and had an endless enthusiasm for all its aspects.

Over the next few weeks Edward came to know and understand Abby's inner workings. The work was, if anything, much easier and less dangerous than the looms and while he stood rag in hand waiting for the calculating flag to go up Edward watched Jones' manipulation of the mechanism and learnt quite a lot about Abby's operations. Navel training brought him and Rob together in the mornings. Their cutlass work, unarmed fighting and gunnery improved daily, and the two boys were evenly matched with a sword.

They days grew warmer and warmer as the fleet cruised into the the clear blue waters of the Caribbean, and when they could find the time from their duties the boys would sit at the prow of the boat and look for dolphins which frequently ran ahead of the ship dancing and diving as if leading the way to some elfin paradise.

On the 12th of April the fleet dropped anchor at Castle Harbour on the British Island of Bermuda where it took on supplies. Several Merchant vessels had arrived with the fleet and some had been waiting for it, so when the fleet hauled anchor a week later the flotilla was much increased in size. Now the fleet turned towards the Bahamas before entering the Gulf of Mexico.

By the 21st of April the third fleet was a day out of Nichols Town on the north point of the Bahamas when a French convoy was spotted around three o'clock in the afternoon. Edward was in the stuffy ABAE cabin waiting for the day's fuel usage printing when the alarm was raised. As he'd been trained he ran to the battery counter on the gunnery deck where it was his job to turn the small brass dials which told Abby when a shell had been fired. He knew, because Jones had explained it to him, that a target ship's distance, speed and direction would be fed into Abby from the helm and above each gun the angle and rotation of the weapon would be given in a small brass window thus ensuring the maximum efficiency for each and everyone of the Dauntless shells.

From his post it wasn't easy to see what was going on. As there was no shelling Edward crept off his post and look a peek through a near gun port. Far of in the distance he could just about make out a small line of ships, the gleam of sun on fresh white sail canvas and the greasy pall of funnel smoke from a steam ship running on crude oil. Young gunners waited tensely for the command to fire, though the older seamen told them the enemy fleet was too far off to engage.

The minutes turned into an hour and it became increasingly clear that  Admiral Stoakhampton intended to neither give chase to, or open fire on, the enemy fleet and after two hours the order to stand down was given. Edward and Rob ran to the rails to watch the last of the French fleet disappear unhindered over the horizon.

"That's a pity." Rob mused. "We almost had our first chance at battle there."

"Do we really want that?" asked Edward.

"Cause we do Eddy. The chance to prove ourselves men, to experience the heat of battle, a medal each eh? After all these weeks of training I'm eager to put it to some good use."

"That's the spirit lad." a passing officer overhearing his words came across and clapped a hand on Rob's shoulder. "The British Navy needs lads like you, trained and ready to fight for the King. You'll go far no doubt lad."

The following day the fleet dropped anchor just off Nichols Town. Edward could see a small outpost of colourful brick and wood buildings clinging to the shore line. Beneath the iron hull of the Dauntless, clear waters allowed him an extraordinary view of the white sandy seabed over which shoals of silvery fish flashed. The big excitement of the day was the arrival of an airship over the fleet. This was not one of the fat bagged gargantuan merchant vessels which Edward and Rob had seen at Tewkesbury, nor was it one of the grey high altitude bomber ships which were the terror of regular sea going ships. This was a sleet packet airship. It's gas bag a long aerodynamic cigar shape, the small gondola nothing more than a light and efficient steam engine with a small cabin stuck on its front. This airship was built for speed and speed alone. The black gondola with red crest indicated an Imperial Agent was aboard.

The talk in the galley was of a change of orders. Why else would an Imperial Agent meet the fleet here rather than the Canaries? Unless he was delivering sealed orders, orders from the Emperor himself? Others, however, suspected a more sinister reason. Rumour had it the Emperor was looking for a spy, and not just any spy, a special spy, though no one knew what made the spy so special. It was thought the spy might be aboard the fleet, possibly having boarded a ship at either Bristol or Liverpool. Three ships in the fleet had joined from Liverpool and two from Bristol, the SS Intrepid, a huge iron hulled vessel taking two hundred and fifty thousand tons in its draft, and the SS Dauntless.

"We took on a few at Bristol didn't we Nelson?" A seaman asked the grizzly old sea dog.

"Ay we did that, and if there's a spy amongst them then I'm Queen of England." He told the men. "No doubt it's a change of orders, or perhaps the Admiral's forgot his favourite wig." he joked, raising laughter from the men.
