Chapter 22 – Blackwater Castle
Diving back into the tower, Edward rushed down stairs to the room below where Carmine  was cushioning Percy's head in her lap, a pool of blood slowly spreading across the stone floor.

Captain Legate leant over Percy's fallen body and carefully opened the thick tweed jacket and waistcoat which Percy was so fond of wearing. He examined the wound. It had been a clean shot, the bullet passing high on Percy's chest and it appeared to have missed any vital organs.

"I'm no doctor, but I've seen my share of wounds, and I say he'll live," pronounced the old soldier, "but he is loosing a lot of blood, we need to staunch the flow." Tearing his own shirt into strips Captain Legate bound Percy's chest. The boy moaned and cried out as they moved him, but thankfully lapsed quickly into a fevered unconsciousness.

The captain tied off the last strip of shirt and wiped his bloodied hands on his trousers. "Well that's the best I can do for him. We can't moving him though, the journey back to Bristol would do for him."

"We need to get a message to the Valiant, or to Professor Van Klees at least," said Edward. "But how? I don't suppose Vilners has a bright-energy inter-locution device handily hidden in his apartment."

"May I see your watch Edward?" asked Ra Chet, without his usual robe his metallic limbs glistened in the lamp-light.

"My watch?" asked Edward, pulling it from his pocket and handing it to Ra Chet.

The mechanical man turned the watch over with a spin of his wrist, "As I thought, it is the work of Professor Van Klees, I think this may aid us." He fiddled with the edge of the watch and it suddenly popped open like a surprised oyster shell, exposing a small grill, under which, was mounted a glistening pearl.

"You press the pearl to talk," Ra Chet instructed, holding the device out for Edward to take. "As I suspected, it contains a small  bright-energy inter-locution device. It will not have much power, you will need to make sure it is fully wound before you use it. Also Edward, please remember, the Guardians may over-hear any message you send."

"We will just have to take the risk and hope, the Valiant can get to us before the Guardians do, for Percy's sake," said Edward winding the watch. He paused, deep in thought for a moment then pressed the pearl.

"Ahoy, Ahoy, White Rose calling Copper Swallow. Urgent request transportation from Blackwater Castle, I repeat Blackwater castle." No reply came from the device and Edward snapped its brass cover closed again.

"I hope that worked," he said.

"I hope the Valiant gets here before the Guardians," said Carmine.

All the while Captain Legate had been sitting on a lower stair and while he looked tired and worn, his bare muscular shoulders hunched forward, his eyes inspected Ra Chet with a ferocious intensity.

"So Edward, tell me, who or what is this new acquaintance of yours?" asked the Captain, "He is a formidable warrior and either wears the most unusual armour I've ever seen, or is in fact made of metal."

"He is Ra Chet, a mechanical soldier from the Army of Lao Sun, formerly assigned to Lord Philip and now under my command," replied Edward.

"Well he's a good one to have at your side in a fight," said Legate, "You should have seen him. We were waiting by the car in the courtyard when half a dozen East India Company troops came running from the castle garrison and surrounded us. Telling us we were under arrest for aiding and abetting the Pretender, and trespass, and any number of other fool accusations. Well I wasn't about to let them take us and I raised my sword, as did Chesterton, and Lady Augustus here produced that rather dainty pistol of her's."

"So it looked like being a stand off, but a rather eager solider decided he would take us anyway and crossed swords with me. I don't think anyone had noticed our silent mechanical friend here, as he stood by the car, but the moment the soldiers attacked I heard a whirring and a clicking and seconds later four of the soldiers were lying dead around us. The other two took to their heels and we chased them all the way up here, where you witnessed their steely demise."

"It seem we are most lucky to have you amongst us Ra Chet," said Edward.

"Thank you," replied the mechanical man.

"Did you say he was from the legendary mechanical Army of Lao Sun?" asked Captain Legate.

"I believe so," replied Edward, "do you know of it?"

"well I never believed it existed of course, though rumours of it go back almost a hundred years. It's an old soldiers tale, told to extol the virtues of military organisation and as such I always thought it just a fanciful story, you know, a sort of soldiers bogeyman, if your not disciplined in battle, the Mechanical Army will defeat you. But I never believe for one moment that it really existed."

"Well I don't know if there is an entire army, but Ra Chet here is certainly real," responded Edward.

"My, my, you live and learn," said the Captain scratching his stubbly chin, "I bet the Guardians would love to get their hands on him."

"Talking of which," said Edward, suddenly a little concerned, "What has happened to Rob? Does he still hold Brother Sancticus?"

"I'll come with you," volunteered Captain Legate and the two of them left the others with the unconscious Percy.

They made their way back down the narrow stone passage and a few minutes later emerged through the secret bookcase in Vilners's room. In the flickering light they found Rob standing with his sword pointing casually at the Monk's throat while Brother Sancticus sat stiffly on the bed, seething with anger.

"This is no way to treat a man of God," he protested, his face livid with anger. Small speckles of foam spat from his mouth as he spoke. "I'm personal confessor to Lord Darkmere, I'm a holy man, a priest, a Brother of the Light of God, you can't treat me this way, you can't hold me."

"I'm afraid Lord Darkmere has rather gone and left you in it," said Edward, to the furious priest. "But I think the least we can do is offer you a ride, as it is our intention to catch him up anyway, it seems he forgot a few things in his haste, and we are keen to see he gets them, perhaps if you knew where he was bound?"

The priest glared malevolently at Edward, "do you take me for a fool boy? an Idiot? So easily taken in by your charm and easy words? I think not, you'll get no such information from me even if I knew it."

"I see you are his Brother, but not his keeper," said Captain Legate.

"What!" spat Brother Sancticus, "you would make light with me? you think this is all a joke? I will be missed by the Brotherhood, and no doubt when Vilners arrives at his destination he will alert the Brotherhood, and you will have the Guardians to content with, then you will pay."

"In the meantime Brother Sancticus, you have us to deal with," said Edward, then turning to Rob, "Keep him sat tight while the Captain and I look through Darkmere's papers, perhaps there is clue to his destination amongst them."

Edward and the Captain set to searching through Vilners's apartments. It was clear Vilners did not spend much time at the castle, there were few personal possessions, most of the papers  they found pertained to the castle's costs. The only real clue was what looked like a list of Darkmere's properties; an apartment in London, a farm in the British Free state of Huston,  plantations in India, the Caribbean and Malaysia, small holdings in Scotland and various properties scattered across the Empire.

"He could be headed for any of these," said Edward striking the paper with his finger.

"It narrows things down somewhat," said the Captain.

"But we could never investigate all of these in time," replied Edward.

"Perhaps we do not need to," replied the Captain. "We know he intends marrying Emily, I suggest he is unlikely to do this on a farm or plantation, it would not set the right kind of tone to such a proceeding. It's unlikely he will flee to Scotland as there, there would be a good chance of her successful rescue or, if she escaped his clutches, an easy return to England for her. I would think he is intending to take her to one of his other properties."

"Yes but still which one? there are five on the list," protested Edward throwing himself into Vilners chair and sinking his head in his hands.

"Maybe the Priest can tell us more, perhaps we can be more persuasive with him?" suggested Captain Legate.

"What do you mean?" asked Edward.

"I learnt a trick or two in the army to get information from a reluctant prisoner." said the Captain.

"Are you suggesting we torture it out of him?" said Edward.

"Breaking a couple of his fingers might loosen his tongue," said Legate.

"You have seen the man, under those priestly robes is the body of a soldier, I doubt a bit of pain is going to get him to talk. No, if we wish to get information from him we need to know his weakness and exploit it." said Edward.

"You are right, but what is his weakness?" replied Legate.

"Perhaps if we let him believe he has escaped he will lead us to Darkmere, or at least attempt to contact him." suggested Edward.

"It's an interesting plan but I think he will run for the nearest Monastery or Guardian Sanctuary."

"Very well, we must take him with us for now. Look the Valiant left us at Bristol so if she got our message she will be arriving here soon. We should move everyone to the tower ready to evacuate," said Edward.

They made their way back to the tower room with Rob keeping a keen eye and a sharp sword on Brother Sancticus's back. The priest was still fuming but kept his thoughts to himself. Edward made his way up the iron stairs to the observation lounge above the tower room and sat on the simple bench which ran around its wall and looked through the windows over the desolate moors. 

The wooden walls of the observation room rattled with the wind as light rain tapped on the west facing windows. Dawn broke slowly over the marshes, their black expanses turning first grey then to a dull mottled green, daubed here and there with brownish hues. In the far distance Edward could see a glint of clear open water. There was still no sign of the Valiant in a sky hung with large grey clouds.

Something in the marshes caught Edward's eye. Something was moving out there. He found a spy-glass which someone had handily left lying on the bench and began searching out the source of the movement. He didn't have to look for long, a line of men on horseback accompanied by a couple of dark carriages and a black steam-car were slowly weaving their way along the winding marsh road. The dark red uniform jackets of the horse riders told Edward these were Imperial Troops, and the black jackets of two men near the front of the column suggested they were Imperial Agents.

Edward scanned the skies once more for the elusive Valiant, before leaping down the stairs to tell the others.

"It looks like Vilners got a message out, Imperial Troops and Agents are approaching," he told them.

"How long have we got?" asked Legate.

"Not long, an hour at the most," replied Edward.

"If we raise the drawbridge and secure all the doors we might buy ourselves another hour," said the Captain.

"It wont do you any good, the Emperor's men approach and soon the tables will be turned," laughed Brother Sancticus.

"Do you want to shut him up or should I?" Carmine asked, smiling at the priest. Something in her eyes made the monk decide it would be better to keep his peace and took to silently glowering at his persecutors.

"Captain, you and Chesterton help me secure the castle," said Edward, heading for the door. They raced down spiral stone stairways and along the battlements quickly descending to the winch room where the drawbridge and portcullis were controlled. Edward and the Captain began turning the massive wooden wheel which wound huge chains around the vast spindle. From deep within the castle came a groan of machinery as enormous counterweights began to move in their wells. With a loud creaking and clanging the drawbridge began to rise and the portcullis moved lower and lower until, with a final crash, the castle gate was secured shut.

"It will not hold them for long if they've brought either cannon or grappling hook," cautioned Captain Legate. "We need to fortify the interior, hold them off at the base of the tower if we have to."

The next twenty minutes was spent securing all the interior doors as the three of them ran through the castle. Edward and Captain Legate were about to lock the door at the foot of the tower when Chesterton rushed up.

"Come on, we've been waiting for you," said Captain Legate.

"I've hidden our steam-car in one of the outbuildings in the courtyard," said Chesterton. "Hopefully we can retrieve it later."

"If the Valiant doesn't get here soon, it wont matter," said the Captain.

They secured the door and reinforced it by propping a large beam of wood against it.

"That should do it," said Chesterton.

"Let's hope so," retorted the Captain and all three climbed the final steps to the tower.

"Nothing to to now but wait I suppose," said Captain Legate.

Edward climbed up to the observation room to see how the Imperial Troops were progressing.
They had made steady progress and were now only a few minutes away. The slowly drifting clouds still refused to give up any sign of the Valiant to his eager eye.

As he watched the column of troops approached the edge of the moat and came to a halt. The black jackets and a couple of red jackets huddled together, obviously discussing their next move. It didn't take then long to decide. One of the red jackets began gesticulating at the main column of troops who formed up forty feet or so from the edge of the moat.

Four troops gathered round one of the carriages. They unloaded equipment and began assembling something. Edward's observations of the enemy were interrupted by a loud clang from the room below and he dashed down to see what was happening.

Captain Legate and Chesterton had wrenched two of the velvet curtains, rods and all, from their settings above the arrow slits. The noise Edward had heard was the rods falling to the cold stone floor. They quickly cut one of the curtains in half and slashed the trailing end into ribbons which Captain legate then tied round the rod from the second curtain fashioning them into a makeshift stretcher.

"We should move Percy up to the observation room," said Captain Legate, "We don't want him getting in the way if we need to fight in here. What's happening outside?"

Edward reported all he had seen.

"You should get back up there and continue to keep an eye on them," said Legate, "Chesterton and I will bring the boy up."

Edward nodded his assent and returned to the observation room. The troops were completing the machine assembly. Their activity lay far below him on the other side of the castle, and at that distance Edward was unable to make out what the purpose of the apparatus was. Of one thing he was sure though, it did not bode well for his small band. A groan came up the stairs which meant, Edward supposed, they were moving Percy onto the stretcher and as if to confirm this, a moment later, Captain Legate and Chesterton appeared up the stairs carefully carrying the boy between them. They placed the stretcher gently on the floor.

"What is happening? How many of them are there?" asked the Captain.

"Looks about thirty of them," replied Edward, "They are assembling some sort of device."

"Still no sign of the Valiant I see," said Legate looking at the overcast sky.

"I think they are ready," said Edward looking at the troops below who were wheeling the contraption towards the castle. They spent a few more moments adjusting the thing then stood back. Like a tiny tin soldier one of the red jackets lifted an arm, holding his sword out, and brought it down in a signal to fire the machine. Four lines of rope shot from the contraption and a moment later Edward heard four dull clunks of iron on stone. The ropes fell slack and the operators began coiling the ropes back in.

"Cannon grappling hooks," said Captain Legate, "I think Darkmere doesn't want to pay for a new door. It may take them a couple of tries before they get it right."

The device took fifteen minutes or so to be re-set and once again the officer signalled with his sword and once again the grappling hooks failed to reach the outer parapet.

"They are unlikely to miss a third time," said Legate, "I've seen these things before in India and South Africa, once they get the hooks over they will haul a climbing net across the moat and they'll be over the wall in seconds."

"We could cut the ropes," suggested Edward.

"We could try, but you see those troops stood further back from the rest? Sharpshooters, their job is to stop us doing precisely that," replied Legate. "I doubt even your mechanical friend could hack his way through thirty troops."

"There are five of us as well, each armed with both pistol and sword," said Edward, "how long do you think we can hold them off for?"

"Well the tower is a good defensive position, and we could hold off thirty of them pretty much indefinitely, but what good would it do us? They have us trapped here in the tower already and it will only be a matter of time before they either scale the tower walls or, bring in an airship of their own. Besides which, we have no supplies, we can last out here a day or two at the most."

"We could use the secret passageway and sneak passed them back down to Vilners apartments, perhaps we could escape from there," suggested Edward.

"It's a good idea," agreed Legate, "though we would have to leave Percy behind, and perhaps use Ra Chet to hold them off here as we make our escape. Lets say in the last desperate hour we might need to try it."

Edward agreed. The though of leaving Percy behind did not sit well with him. He had begun to think of this motley band of individuals as being his, as being the seed, the beginings of a new League of the White Rose.

The Imperial troops device fired for the third time and as predicted they successfully got the grappling hooks over the battlements. There was a further delay as the operators manipulated leavers and loaded a great net which was then winched up the ropes. It was clear the net would reach the parapet in a few short minutes. The sharpshooters stood firm their long weapons beaded on the castle wall ready to fire on the smallest movement.

The air in the observation room seemed to draw close and a dark shadow fell across the tower, which in the gloomy sky seemed almost to bring night again. Edward looked round the faces of his friends each returned a determined look.

Something about the descending darkness suddenly occurred to Edward. He opened the door and stepped out onto the parapet. There, hanging over the tower like a large black cloud was the Valiant, and even as he looked a rope-ladder unfurled from its gantry and fell at his feet. Above him a sailor called down, "Ahoy there."

"We have wounded, we need a winch," called Edward. The sailor waived and disappeared inside the Valiant. A moment later the winching mechanism was angled out over the side and began to lower a long woven basket.

"It's the Valiant, the Valiant has come," Edward called to the others. Get everyone here. Percy to go first."
