Chapter 16 – The Crystal Palace
The following morning Edward rose late to find Chesterton laying out garments for the day with mid-morning sun streaming into the room.

"Good morning Sir. Captain Legate thinks it is a good opportunity to show you some of the sights of the city today. He's awaiting you in the breakfast room, the steam-car is primed and ready to leave as soon as you are ready," Chesterton said, handing Edward yet another damn embroidered shirt. Edward wondered just where Chesterton was getting them from, he seemed to have an endless supply.

He didn't let such idle thoughts delay him, Edward wasfilled him with excitement at the prospect of seeing London, the seat of the most powerful Empire in the World. The Duchess Catherine Van Der Hoakfen, who clearly loved visiting the city, had filled his head with ideas about the sights he should see. There was one she was particularly keen on, one he was definitely going to see, though not until the evening, the grand Crystal Palace, which his father Victor the Second had had rebuilt, its reputation of splendour and magnificence a legend across the world.

In the breakfast room Rob and Captain Legate were leisurely finishing a meal of England's finest morning victuals, fat sizzling sausages and hansom rashers of bacon with eggs and mushrooms. Hot buttered toast with fresh creamery butter and a selection of jams and marmalades, all washed down with Earl Grey tea. Despite their relaxed manner Edward sensed Rob and the Captain were growing weary of waiting for him, and eager to see the city himself Edward did not take full advantage of the faire which the Blatchington-Smythes had provided.

As he dashed jam onto a piece of toast and accepted a cup of tea from Chesterton he notice that neither the Blatchington-Smythes nor Carmine were present. Of the Blatchington-Smythes he cared little as to their whereabouts, but Carmine's absence troubled him enough to enquire from Captain Legate as to her whereabouts. He was told Carmine had departed sometime earlier saying she'd seen the sights many times and preferred to spend her time finding something appropriate for the evening.

"In other words, she's gone shopping," Rob said grinning.

"I think it likely we would find her in the vicinity of Knightsbridge or Chelsea at some outfitters or dressmakers Sir," said Chesterton. "We could find her if you wish?"

"I'm sure she knows what she wants and what she's doing," replied Edward. "Let us get along ourselves or we will have seen nothing by the end of the day."

At that Rob and the Captain jumped to their feet and the four of them trooped out into the hallway. As if by magic the Blatchington-Smythes appeared. The two women all smiles and curtsied greetings, while Sir Gerald stood behind them looking slightly confused.

"I thought, as you are from out of town your Highness, that you might care to avail yourself of my daughter's knowledge of our fair city," Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe addressed Edward. "She knows well many of the more important monuments, museums and so forth," she insisted.

Edward looked to the others for a way out, but none was forthcoming and so they found themselves accompanied by the fair Penelope. It was fortunate that there was room for only one more in the steam-car or they might have also had the pleasure of Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe's company as well.

The elegant steam-car stood happily chugging in the middle of the quiet mews. Edward helped Penelope mount the vehicle before climbing in himself. Rob and the Captain followed and Chesterton donned goggles and hat and clambered onto the drivers seat. With a sweet tooting of the whistle Chesterton engaged the gears and the shiny brass and glossy black car began to chug up the road.

Penelope's presence was not the trial Edward had feared. Yes she was extraordinarily attentive to his needs, which was something Edward was still unused to, but she was also knowledgeable about the buildings they past and entertaining in her telling of their histories. As the day wore on Edward found himself rather enjoying her company and began to wonder if Carmine hadn't badly misjudged the younger Blatchington-Smythe.

Around noon they stopped for a light lunch in a hotel on the strand and later took a tour of the British Museum after which Captain Legate suggested they returned to Fairweather House to prepare for the evening.

"How exciting," said Penelope. "To be invited to the Crystal Palace, it is a most wondrous building by all accounts and I'm sure the Emperor's party will be utterly gorgeous and exquisitely sumptuous. I do hope you will find some trade links with our Country, if nothing else, to give you an excuse to visit with us again," she smiled winsomely at Edward.

Edward mounted the stairs to his room, his mind racing with thoughts about the evening before him, what was the Duke's purpose in inviting him to the Palace party? would he meet his uncle, the Emperor? As he strode along the corridor deep in thought a sudden shriek and the crash of porcelain jolted him from his revere.

An auburn haired blue eyed young woman in the black and white livery of Fairweather house staff was standing in front of Edward, her hands held over her mouth, a tray of broken porcelain at her feet. For a long moment she stood staring at him, her blue eyes wide with shock.

Edward was about to say something when the girl dropped her hands from her face and in that instant Edward recognised her.

"Anna?" he asked.

"Edward? Is that really you?" the girl asked. It was Anna Blacksteel from his old Orphanage.

"Anna," he cried and embraced her, then realising he risked exposing his identity as a Prince of  Swzaskol he quickly pulled her into his room.

"Anna, it's so good to see you," said Edward. "What are you doing here?"

"Edward, I feared you were dead," she cried and embraced him again.

"My dear dear Anna, it's so good to see you, but what are you doing at Fairweather House?" Edward asked again.

"I could ask you the same thing, but I will tell first," she smiled at him, the joy of reconciliation clear in her eyes. "I'm in the employ of the Blatchington-Smythes. After you left the Orphanage that night Sniderby became very interested in you, he kept asking me questions about you. Then one day about a week after you left, a Lady came in a black airship and she brought me here to London to ask more questions about you, 'did I know where you were going?' The things you had said to me, but I didn't know anything. I was detained by the Department of Internal Affairs for several weeks which was horrid. After that I was brought into the employ of the Blatchington-Smythes and I've been here ever since."

"Oh but the shock you gave me when I saw you in the corridor, and in those fancy clothes. At first I thought it was just a nasty trick my mind was playing on me, seeing your face on the Prince of  Swzaskol, but then that expression on your face which I know so well, that's when I dropped the tray. Oh the tray!" she wailed. "Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe will be very displeased with me. She says I'm a clumsy girl, though I work hard for her and try to do everything right, it's not easy, I'm not used to  this kind of work, it's nothing like Blacksteel mill."

"Don't worry about the tray," Edward assured her. Taking her delicate hands in his he said, "I'll tell Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe it was my fault." He paused a moment in thought. "Look I have to go. As you know I'm not the Prince of Swzaskol and but can't risk being exposed. So much has happened since I saw you and I have so much to tell you, but I don't have time right now, I have an important meeting this evening, when it's over I'll come back and get you, I promise," Edward looked into her eyes. "You just have to be patient a little longer. Now please leave quickly before were caught, and please, not a word to anyone," he begged her.

With a last tearful glance back at him Anna slipped quietly from the room leaving Edward to prepare for the night ahead.

As the afternoon light began to turn to dusk a modest yet fancy Hungarian carriage arrived at the mews and a few minutes later Edward and Carmine came out of Fairweather house. Edward was dressed in the traditional Swzaskol outfit topped off by a short cloak. Carmine wore a long flattering dress in the latest London fashion with flowing sleeves and delicate lace work at the cuffs, a tight bodice held her slim waist and emphasised her bosom, over which she wore a long dark cloak with a large loose hood.

"You look fantastic," Edward told her when he saw her come out of the house.

"Why thank you your highness," she smiled at him as he offered her a hand into the carriage.

Carmine climbed into the black and gold painted vehicle, Rob and Captain Legate dressed in footmen's uniforms joined them. Edward suppressed a smile at the sight of them in the tight fitting long green jackets and knee length boots. And while he thought them a pair he also noticed the sharp swords hung at their belts and the decorative, though equally deadly pistols each carried on his hip. In a moment they had jumped up on the footman's plate at the back of  the carriage and Chesterton in top hat and long black coachman's cloak took up the reigns of the four black horses. With a snap of the leathers and a cry of "walk on" from Chesterton, the carriage rolled out of mews which echoed the deft clip clop of the horses.

The streets of London were, if anything, even more wondrous by night than by day. Many of the buildings were lit by gas or torch light emphasising parts of their frontages which in daylight appeared plain but by lamplight were mysterious and magical. They rode down the Strand and across the mighty Thames on a bridge with large braziers positioned every twenty feet set in stone bays built into the sides of the bridge. As their journey continued their carriage was joined by others moving in the same direction and soon a faerie glow was be seen on the horizon lighting up the sky as they approached the Crystal Palace itself. As they drew closer the lights grew brighter and the top of the Palace became visible over the trees an ethereal structure of steel and coloured glass like a deep sea jelly fish glowing in the inky depths it sparkled and flickered with coloured light a stupendous shining jewel set in a large spacious park.

Marking out the path to the Palace a long corridor of torches burnt on tall stakes, flickering and dancing in the gentle evening breeze. The Swzaskol carriage joined a line of elegant carriages which moved at a steady pace towards the palace entrance and the sweeping driveway before it. Edward watched as each carriage came to the large oval flowerbed which formed a point around which the carriages turned, but instead of flowers in the oval there were large crystals of many colours and shapes. Discrete gas lights played across the many faceted display throwing sparkles of light which flickered across the highly polished carriages and lit the faces of the Emperor's guests as they dismounted from their vehicles.

Edward and Carmine took their turn, a footman in Emperor's livery opened the door for them and offered Carmine a hand down. Edward watched as their carriage disappeared off around the display of crystals. Carmine said, "Don't worry, they will be close by if we need them."

"I wasn't worrying," Edward replied, offering Carmine his arm. They walked over the gravel  towards the palace. Loose stones gave way to silver coloured, highly polished, marble flooring in which they saw their own reflections. Ahead of them stood a massive glass entrance way like a portal into another world, one of bright colours, flickering lights and distorted reflections. Inside was both beauty and madness together. Edward was never entirely sure if a surface was real or a reflection. A corridor of people became a looking glass mirage, an already large hall appeared twice its actual size, people seemed to be walking on the ceilings as well as the floors and in places the reflections ran infinitely onward the next smaller, yet just as perfect as the last.

It was clear people would have found all this too bewildering and strange on its own, but the designers had created clever clues which helped orientate the visitor, they included simple written signs, the words of which of course would appear backwards in their reflections. A corridor might be hung with paintings which seemed to float in the air, but whose very presence told of a wall supporting them. Chairs and potted plants on delicately carved tables not only added to the luxury and magnificence but also subtly indicated doorways, glass walls and mirrored surfaces so though the sight was potentially confusing the experience was delightful and charming.

As Edward and Carmine walked down the main corridor a troupe of ballerinas dressed in flowing silks, danced behind a glass wall, on a surface so reflective it appeared as if they balanced on the feet of identical upside down dancers. At the end of the corridor they came to the main ballroom a vast space with the night stars for a ceiling, where yard upon yard of gold and red silken drapes swooped down from the ceiling, curving and swishing to the floor. As they entered the room a functionary in Imperial red and black livery held out a gloved hand. Edward was about to shake it when Carmine flicked a small gold edged card from between the fingers of her blue velvet glove and gave it to the functionary who took a moment to read it before announcing in a loud voice to the room, "Prince Constantine Prevaclouz and Princess Claudine DeLaqouir of the Grand Duchy of Swzaskol."

There was polite murmur from the assembled dignitaries and the odd glance from those nearest the entrance and those who just had to know who everyone was, even if they were as obscure as Swzaskolians. Edward and Carmine proceeded into the crowd keeping a discreet eye out for the Duke of Northumberland, though Edward wondered how they would ever find him in such a crowd. He and Carmine took an unobtrusive position by the wall where they thought they might best survey the room for the Duke without drawing undue attention to themselves.

After they had stood for a while, Edward and Carmine found themselves approached by tall pale aristocrat in a long black jacket. He wore his dark hair long and to the shoulder, and while his face was rather drawn and had a deep scar running from his eyebrow to his cheekbone there was a certain handsomeness to him, and while he presented a thin pale hand to Carmine his grip was surprisingly firm. He held himself with a certain air of self-assurance and Edward couldn't help thinking that behind the dark eyes the man was laughing at him.

"Your highness," he greeted Carmine lifting her hand to his thin lips and pressing a cold kiss on the soft velvet of her glove. To Edward he proffered nothing more than a nod of recognition that he was stood beside Carmine.

"May I introduce myself? I am Lord Trafford Darkmere, Count of Dankmoor, Viceroy of Poojat, and I believe you are Princess Claudine of Swzaskol. May I also complement you on your outstanding beauty?" he said in deep, gravely, voice and managed a tight smile as he peered into Carmine's eyes.

Carmine gave a small curtsy in return and said, "You flatter me my Lord."

Edward decided he didn't really like the fellow, not his manner nor his attitude.

"I would be in your debt if you would grant me the pleasure of a dance," the Count persisted.

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure," Carmine said to Edward's surprise. "But I fear I am otherwise committed at this moment, and must, for now, await such a pleasure till a more opportune time."

A dark cloud of annoyance passed across Darkmere's face and with a sneering smile he bowed to Carmine and turned on his heels disappearing back into the crowd as quickly as he had first come.

A moment later Edward and Carmine were approached again, this time by a familiar figure, the Duke.

"There you are my boy, I've been looking all over for you," said the Duke, then a frown flickered across his brow. "Was that Count Dankmoor I saw talking to you?" he asked.

"It was, and a most unpleasant man," said Edward.

"Indeed, his meeting you is less than desirable, particularly his meeting Carmine," said the Duke.

"What can you mean my dear Duke?" asked Carmine.

"I mean that Darkmere is, like you, an agent of the Emperor, and there is a risk he may have recognised you," said the Duke.

"Well I've never met him before," Carmine assured them, "I've no doubt I would remember if I had."

"That is as well as it is good, for our sakes let us hope you have never been pointed out to him," replied the Duke. "Now we must hurry for we have little time, the Emperor is about to address the hall and this is our opportunity, quickly, follow me," instructed the Duke turning and moving off into the crowd as he spoke.

They followed the Duke through the colourful crowd of excited aristocrats, ambassadors and assorted dignitaries making their way towards the back of the hall. They reached the glass wall at a point well off to one side where the foliage of plants was unusually dense and the number of wall hangings rather more than usual. The duke stepped behind a particularly tall and thick fern and pressed on part of the wall. A small click and a mirrored part slid back to reveal a narrow passage. Swiftly the Duke ushered Edward and Carmine in to the passage and the door slid closed behind them.

"This is one of the Palace's access passages," explained the Duke as they walked along in single file. "They are mainly used by staff so they can move around unobtrusively, but they are also used by members of the Royal family from time to time." As he spoke they came to a narrow spiral staircase leading to the upper floors of the Palace.

"The Crystal Palace is never occupied," explained the Duke, "It is used purely for functions and state occasions, so there are no bedrooms, however there are staterooms set aside for the Emperor and the Royal family to use on occasions like this." By the time Duke had finished telling them this they had arrived a peculiar section of the passageway, a rectangle of wall  framed in a steel mechanism.

The Duke turned to Edward and his voice took on a most serious tone. "Your mother, the queen, knows of your return and is naturally keen to see you again. You do not have long though, she is due to join the Emperor at the grand banquet as soon as he has finished delivering his address. Lady Carmine and I will await you here in the passage. Good luck boy." With that the Duke activated a lever in the wall and it swung open.

Edward stepped into a large room with shining floors and glassy pillars of crystal. At one end of the room a figure sat alone at a dressing table. As the secret panel clicked shut behind him the figure turned her head and looked over.

"Come here," she commanded in a soft gental voice.

Edward crossed the room towards the woman. She was late middle aged with long blond hair. She wore a simple yet elegant dress but it was was her face which astonished Edward, the most beautiful and the most sad face he had ever see. As he approached, the Queen stood and turned.

"Let me look at you boy," she said. She stood silent and still, her only movement the flickering of her eyes as she inspected every aspect of his face. After a while she began quietly singing a soft refrain, the same eight bars, over and over. As Edward listened to the tune something came into his mind, a long forgotten distant memory. Suddenly he realised knew the song, the tune at least. When the Queen came to the end of the refrain again Edward found himself humming the next part of the tune. The Queen's eyes widened with astonishment, and then with a tearful smile she stepped up to him and took his shoulders in her perfect hands.

"Edward?" she whispered, barely audibly. "My Edward, can it really be you?" she asked, looking questioningly into his eyes. "For so long I've thought you gone. When Guy told me, I wanted to believe, but I couldn't believe, I couldn't risk finding you then loosing you again. Is it really you my son?"

Edward was unsure how to answer this. He had hoped she would have the answer. Of course over the months he had come to accept the Duke's word on the matter, the proof of Lord Philip's poem.

"Do you not know me?" he asked eventually. "Can you not tell your own son my Queen? For if you do not know me, then there is no-one, not even myself, who knows who I am."

"You know the tune, the nursery rhyme I sang you as a babe to rock you to sleep. You have your father's eyes and jaw, I see my beloved Richard in your manner and the way you hold yourself, but I have wanted this moment so much, for so long, I no not if I can trust myself."

A sharp noise interrupted their tearful conversation and her manner changed in an instant.

"Someone approaches, you must leave, they must not find you here," she insisted leading him over to the mirrored panel by which he had entered her chambers. "Go quickly my son, go now for we shall meet again and when we do I hope I shall know you for my son." With that she pressed upon the panel and a dark oblong opened up in the silver wall.

As the panel slid silently closed Edward heard voices coming in the Queen's chamber. Carmine and the Duke were waiting for him, and while their faces spoke of their eagerness to know how his meeting had proceeded, the Duke spoke of the more pressing matter.

"Quickly now, you and Carmine must leave the palace, you must not be found here," he warned. "Go quickly."

Carmine led Edward along the passage and down stairs. They all but ran, taking first this turn then that and always descending until they came to a section of passageway with the familiar mechanism and Carmine opened another panel.

They appeared to be in small reception room, with no-one else about. Carmine opened the door and peeked out into the corridor. "All clear," she said, hurrying out. Edward swiftly followed her and a moment later they were making their way through a back kitchen and out through a rear entrance into the dark night.

Carmine led him along a small path which ran alongside the glittering Palace wall and a moment latter they came to a stable area. The carriage he had arrived in awaited ready and harnessed, Captain Legate sat at the driver's seat and Rob ready with the doors. The carriage was already rolling as Edward and Carmine jumped in, Rob catching the rear footplate as Captain Legate urged the horses to speed.

They shot down the curving drive which led towards the front of the Crystal Palace itself but turned off down a dark and unlit road before reaching the grand front. Edward heard Rob shout something indistinct to the captain, whatever it was, it caused the Captain to urge the horses on even faster. Soon they reached the edge of the park and rolled onto the streets of London heading for the river. As they turned the corner Edward though he saw a second carriage coming out of the park after them.

A rustling behind Edward caused him to turn his attention back to the carriage, Carmine appeared to be undressing. Her elegant outfit crumpled to the carriage floor beneath which she wore a tight fitting, black leather, suit. Seeing him looking she gave him a wry smile. "I fight better in trousers," she said.

"Will there be fighting?" asked Edward.

"Who know? but it looks like the Emperors' Agents are in pursuit. Did you see the carriage following us?"

Edward nodded.

"They will be wanting to ask us questions if they catch us," she told him.

Their carriage continued to rattle on through the night empty streets ever more toward the river, the sound of horses hooves and the clatter of wheels echoing off the walls of the houses and buildings. Their perusers seemed to be catching up as Edward heard a shot being fired. A moment latter Rob's head poked through the footman's hatch.

"Get ready to jump when we slow down for the corner," he told them, "The Captain will try to draw our pursuers off."

As the carriage slowed to take the turn Carmine flipped the door open and she and Edward leapt to the ground closely followed by Rob. Quickly the three of them took cover behind some crates, and not a moment too soon for a black carriage bearing the Imperial crest thundered passed their hiding place. Four black horses foaming at the mouth frantically drew the carriage as the black clad driver urged them on, so eagerly he almost rolled the carriage over, right on top of the place where the three fugitives were hidden. Skidding on the cobbled road the carriage rocked violently back and fourth. As it accelerated away a second black clad figure could be seen leaning from the window and levelling a pistol at the vehicle in front. A shot rang out in the darkness.

"This way," Rob called hoarsely from the gloom and began leading them through the shadows towards the dockside. Soon they came to open space and cooler air indicating they had reached the river. A low mist formed on the waters of the Themes shrouding everything in a mysterious grey cloak. Edward could barely see two steps in front of him. As they walked their footsteps rang dull and hollow on the wooden boarding that formed the dockside and loading piers. At regular intervals they passed the dim yellow glow of the gas-lamps which appeared to float magically above them in the clammy air.

Cold air condensed into heavy droplets on Edwards' cloak and hair. Suddenly Rob called a halt to their progress. The river was silent, somewhere the irregular tink tink of a boats' hull tapped on a dockside. The gentle slurp slurp of the rivers wavelets was disturbed by a deeper, felt rather than heard rumble which quickly turned into a thrashing of water growing in intensity and suddenly a large dark shape emerged menacingly from the dark murky waters.
