Chapter 8 – The relief of Port Arthur
The fleet entered the Gulf of Mexico and headed for Baytown in the British Free state of Houston, in preparation for the relief of Port Arthur, which stood on the disputed British French border. As the Dauntless was one of only three ships in the fleet with a shallow enough draft to enter the Sabine pass it was despatched immediately to begin the bombardment of Port Arthur. On 28th April the Dauntless steamed through the Pass and onto the Sabine Lake itself, and making good time, had Port Arthur in range of its guns by the early afternoon.

The atmosphere on board the Dauntless was tense as she steamed, peacefully enough, across the placid lake waters. Cannon shells were checked, gun barrels cleaned, the men stood ready and poised at their positions. By two o'clock the town was in range and at fifteen minutes past the hour the order was given to begin shelling.

The first cannon cracked loud, gunpowder smoke drifted across the gun deck. A few seconds later a bright flash of light could be seen close to the town and a moment later, the bang of the exploding shell was heard. Edward flicked the shell counter for the gun just fired. For the next five hours, every four seconds a gun on the Dauntless fired and the town began to burn.

As daylight fell the bombardment was suspended for the night. Edward's ears rang with the noise of it for hours afterwards, but the first few moments of quiet were joyful to him. Across the calm lake waters, fires burnt brightly, above the town the night stars were blackened by the thick pall of smoke which rose from the destruction. Watching from the rail Edward wondered what it was all about, if it was all worth it.

"We've got to show these Frenchies it's the British Empire they're messing with," a seaman told him. "We're taking back Port Arthur."

"But we've completely destroyed it," Edward pointed out.

"Aye, well better that, than have it fall into French hands lad," he was told.

The bombardment did not continue the following day, instead, at first light the crew of the Dauntless were roused and all spare seamen were ordered to board a troop barge which had drawn alongside during the night. This included Edward and Rob. A palpable excitement could be felt as they joined marine troops, who had been brought up from Baytown under cover of darkness. As ratings, Edward and Rob were not issued with firearms and they looked enviously on at the troops who were armed with pistols and rifles.

As the first light of dawn began to creep over the distant hills the barge pulled slowly away from the Dauntless and towards the shore line. As they approached the edge of the town the troops were ordered to keep their heads down to avoid French sharp shooters, but the barge continued steadily across the water until it had almost reached the harbour. The previous day's shelling had damaged the docks, though the solid stone keys were still sound, many of the wooden buildings in the dock area had been completely destroyed.

The barge slipped closer to its moorings and four seamen took up position fore and aft to cast the ropes to the dock, just at that moment, the first enemy shot rang out, and one of the seamen crumpled up and fell back into the barge amongst the startled troop. The shouting began. Suddenly group leaders were calling orders, the barge banged into the dockside and the first wave of troops leapt over the side and ran for cover amongst damaged buildings and piles of rubble before the vessel was even secured to the wharf. A second group of troops took possession of the dockside and began returning fire on the town as the barge was made fast.

Things were happening very quickly for Edward. His group were ordered off the barge and led at a fast trot across open ground to the partial cover offered by the side of a building. After moving stealthily along the damaged wall of the building they turned into a street which led inland and Edward's squad moved towards the town square. As they passed a cross roads Edward saw a similar squad moving up a street parallel to the one he was on. It seemed to Edward there was little resistance, the occasional shot rang out, much shouting, but so far he'd not seen one solitary Frenchman. As they moved deeper into enemy territory it became clear their objective was a small stone fort which dominated the west side of Port Arthur.

Coming into the deserted town square, of which the fort formed one side, Edward's group suddenly came under heavy fire. Everyone ran for cover and he found himself crouched behind an overturned cart with Rob at his side.

"What do we do now?" asked Edward.

"Wait I guess," was Rob's reply.

Edward looked round at the destruction which had been delivered the previous day by the Dauntless' guns. As was to be expected the wooden buildings had take the most damage, many of them burnt to the ground leaving stark fingers of blackened wood pointing aimlessly skyward. Brick and stone building had faired better, though there were few glazed windows left in town, and some buildings remained, inexplicably untouched. The debris strewn streets stayed deserted.

A sharp crack sounded off the back of the cart which they hid behind.

"I think we're being shot at," said Edward.

"Keep yourself under cover, it's probably just a ricochet," replied Rob.

A squad of troops arrived on the far side of the town square and began returning fire on the fort. It seemed there was resistance from a French unit operating mainly from the south tower of the fort. For an hour or so shots were exchanged across the town square but there was little progress on either side. Just as Edward was beginning to think a deadlock had been reached a dark shadow fell across the square. Looking up he saw an airborne warship.

The sleek grey craft manoeuvred gracefully through the air, sailing towards the fort and, once in position, began raining incendiaries on the south side of the fort. Bright orange flames licked the stone walls and black oily smoke rose from the battlements. The warship turned slowly rising above the destruction it had wreaked and drifted back, away from the fort, its deadly work done. A lone figure could been on the airships' gantry, a flag held in each hand he signalled to the troops below. The order to advance was given and Edward and Rob found themselves racing with the other soldiers for the burning doors that stood between them and the liberation of the fort.

An enterprising Navel officer had organised some of his men to create a makeshift battering ram from a roof beam and rope. The large wooden doors had suffered greatly from the  bombardment and now burnt fearcely. They soon gave way to the battering ram's insistent knock. The doors collapsed in a crash of sparks and flying wood. Troops rushed in through the breached doors and the fort was once again in British hands.

The fort was filled with running and shouting as officer's ordered a search for the enemy, valuables and supplies. Edward and Rob were assigned to a search squad led by a keen young Petty Officer Rawson who, eager for a chance at the Frenchies, took the squad racing up the south-west tower and on to the battlements. Drawing their cutlasses the five men trotted towards the south corner where the French resistance had last been seen.

To Edward the battlements appeared deserted. Stone chips, ash and burning wood littered the walkway and acrid smoke from the warship's incendiary attack filled their nostrils and brought tears to their eyes. As he stepped carefully around the burning debris Edward failed to notice the figure crouched in the smoke until it was too late. A  knife wielding Frenchie with a soot streaked face and a rictus grin leapt at him through the smoke.

Instinctively Edward brought his cutlass to bear, narrowly deflecting the the French blade but the power of the blow was enough to knock Edward off his balance. He stumbled, tried to keep his footing, and tripped on a block of wood sending himself over backwards. Seeing Edward go down the Frenchman spun around and sprang at a figure in the smoke. Edward struggled to get back to his feet and hearing a gurgled scream, ran towards the cry. He saw a sailor clutching his arm as the Frenchman stood over him poised to deliver the fatal blow. With a shout Edward brought his cutlass up as the Frenchman, hearing him, turned. Edward thrust violently at the French soldier knocking the knife from his hand and piercing him through the chest in a single blow. The Frenchman staggered back and collapsed dead on the ground.

To Edward it seemed as if the whole thing had happened in a moment. And in that moment he'd saved one man's life, and taken another's. The other sailors gathered around Edward to congratulate him on his kill. Not least enthusiastic was Petty Officer Rawson who'd been stabbed in the arm by the dead Frenchman.

"You'll get a medal for this no doubt boy." Rawson told him.

After congratulations, the cleaning up which followed was morbidly gruesome. Edward removed his blade from the dead man's body and then, with Rob's aid, carried the body down the tower to the courtyard below.  For the next few days sailors from the Dauntless were occupied with clearing the fort. As the only available garrison force in the area the S.S. Dauntless was left with minimal crew under the command of the First Officer, while the Captain took up residency in the fort along with the majority of his men.

The crew of the Dauntless were to await the return of the Fifth Battalion to relieve them, following an assault on the town of Lake Charles forty miles or so to the east. During this time Port Arthur remained under military rule. Guards were posted at the docks and the market. For the most part Edward found himself on duty at the market, which had it's benefits. While keeping a sharp eye on the good citizens of Port Arthur to ensure that none of them were Frenchies in disguise, he had time to flirt with the local girls and accept gifts from or make deals with the local merchants.

This is the good life, Edward thought to himself as he leant against a market stall and bit into a juicy red apple. The sun shining, a pretty girl in pale blue skirts smiled shyly at him as she walked passed basket on arm. The cry of the baker's boy selling from a hot tray of fresh pastries. Here he was in fascinating new lands miles from the orphanage and it's cloistered outlook, experiencing new and exciting things, experiencing the richness of life. To Edward's knowledge things couldn't get any better than this. Though a long cool dip in the lake could add further to his contentment he imagined. Yes, he was feeling rather hot and sticky, now he thought about it, a dip in the lake would be just the thing.

The solution to his problem seemed to present itself in the form of Petty Officer Rawson who, due to his wounds, was relieved of duties for the time being.

"Hey Rawson," Edward called across the market place.

"Seaman Black," Rawson waved and strode over.

"How's the arm?" asked Edward.

"Better everyday, but you know, keeping me off duties for a while longer," he grinned at Edward.

"I wondered," Edward said carefully, "If you wouldn't cover for me a half hour, so I can take a quick dip in the lake? It's been terrible hot here all afternoon."

"Well I guess I can do you a favour," Rawson agreed amiably to the request. "Not too long though, the Duty Sergeant will be round in an hour."

"I'll be back before that," Edward called over his shoulder as he jogged towards the dark cool waters of the lake. At the dockside, one of the piers had been taken over by the men as a place to relax. Those who could swim made races to a pontoon moored a hundred feet off shore, while those who could not, sat paddling their feet or standing chest deep in the water. Edward stripped off his clothes and jumped in the shallow water, splashing the other men.

"Oy watch it," they shouted, splashing him as he stood up and shook the water from his hair. 

He larked about in the water for a few minutes while cooling off, before returning to his clothes. Edward sat on the warm quayside stone, drying off in the sunshine, when a seaman flopped down next to him.

"This is a bit of change from the decks of the Dauntless," the seaman said, rummaging through clothes he'd left near Edward's. As he did so he noticed Edwards leather pouch.

"What's this then sea mate?" he asked, dangling the pouch on its leather thong.

"Just a keep sake," Edward said casually, holding out his hand.

"Is that so?" the seaman smirked. "Got a lock of hair have we? A cameo? Is she a beauty or a dog?" as he spoke his fingers deftly opened the pouch and he took a look inside.

"Now what have we here?" the seaman teased, then looking in the bag frowned. "What do we have here indeed?"

"That's mine, give it back," Edward said, a note of annoyance and anger entering his voice.

"This is a mighty fine ring for a press-ganged seaman to be owning," the seaman said. 

Edward lunged at him and grabbed the pouch. The seaman kept a tight hold and the two of them fell to rolling around as they wrestled for possession. At that moment an officer came walking around the corner of the demolished Chandlers and caught the two sailors locked in combat.

"What's going on here? Break it up you two, we don't want to be setting an example to the locals," The officer shouted, then, when his words had little effect, he ordered a couple of sailor's, who were standing idly by enjoying the show, to break up the fight.

"What's this about then?" the officer asked.

"Nothing Sir," Edward said quickly, "Just horsing about."

"I see. And what's this?" the officer stepped forward and took the pouch and ring from the seaman's hand.

"Personal property Sir," Edward volunteered.

The officer looked at the objects first inspecting the ring and then the pouch from which he pulled Edward's mysterious letter. He looked at it then placed both items back in the pouch.

"And who claims ownership of this?" he asked.

"I do Sir," Edward confessed.

"I'm perplexed in my reasoning, that a humble seaman could have such a ring legitimately in his possession," the officer remarked. "I think you'd both better come with me," he allowed them a moment to finish dressing before having them escorted to the fort.

"I fear I'm forced to put you both under lock and key while I consider this problem," the officer said as they entered the fort's small prison and were thrust into a cell.

"This is a fine circumstance," the seaman said accusingly.

"Don't look at me," Edward replied huffily, "No one asked you to go poking through their belongings. Indeed, I should give you a proper beating for doing so, and landing us in this mess."

"You can try if you like, but I warn you, I give no quarter," replied the other, balling his fists up ready for a fight.

"I should, but chance it will land us in more trouble," Edward responded gloomily and sank, head in hands, on the cold stone shelf that served as both seat and bed in the cell.

After a while the seaman relaxed a little and came and sat on the bench. "So how did you get that ring?" he asked.

"It was given to me by my Mother, or so I'm told," said Edward.

"That's a very posh ring, that is," the seaman remarked. "Nice an' heavy like, plenty of gold in it. If you say your Ma gave it you, I believe," he said in a tone that belittled his sincerity.

They'd sat in silence a while when Edward heard footsteps coming down the prison stairs. It was Rob, questioning concern written on his face.

"Hey, Eddy, what have you got yourself into?" Rob asked, scowling at the seaman, so he'd obviously heard how it had happened.

"Listen Rob," Edward stood up and walked over to the bars. Lowering his voice he said "They found this ring I have. I've always had. I didn't tell you about it because, well, I never told anyone. There's something about it that's trouble I fear. I think someone is looking for it and they'll kill to get it. I mean, I don't know, but people know you and me are good friends, you might be in danger that's all. Keep an eye on your back," Edward warned.

"Look don't worry. It was just a fight," Rob said. "Happens all the time, a lashing and you'll be out in no time."

"I'm not sure," Edward said doubtfully, "just keep your eyes open is all."

The afternoon wore slowly on. Edward watched the bright sunlight which fell through a small barred window placed high in the stone wall. The sunbeam crept across the stone floor and began it's excruciatingly slow climb up the wall. Supper arrived on two tin plates. The prisoners might be in the lock-up but they were still in the British Navy and due their square meal. Around nine in the evening the guard came and handed out a solitary blanket each. The two felons were forced to wrap themselves up as best they could and try to get some rest.

Edward fell into a dream wracked sleep, turning to ease the cold press of the stone, first from one side, then from the other, while in his mind far off forgotten things, fractured, dim and dusty memories, danced with fresher newer impressions. In his dreams he saw the Queen of America a beautiful woman smiling down at him, bending and gently kissing him. He's lying in a bed, and painted along its side is the crest from his ring, the bed fades and becomes his bed at the orphanage, Sniderby and the Imperial Agent have taken the ring and dance around teasing him with it. He woke up with a start. Deathly cold and covered in sweat.

Shivering he flapped his blanket and wrapped it round himself again. While sitting with his back against the cold stone, trying to settle his mind, he heard a noise. A creaking and rattling, someone was opening the prison door, and none to subtly. A glance at the small window showed it to be night, but what time was it? Several sets of footsteps came down the stairs.

Edward struggled to his feet as the figures came towards him. It was the night officer and two guards.

"Edward Black. You come with me," the officer ordered as the guards opened the cell. His cell mate half woke and Edward threw his blanket over the man before walking out of the cell. It was a short walk from the jail, across the yard, to the East turret where they climbed the spiral stairs. At the battlements they didn't stop climbing, instead they continued further to the very summit of the tower, a round castellated structure with a flat wooden roof. They climbed up a ladder, through the open hatch, and on to the roof itself, where the sleek black shape of an Imperial packet airship hung darkly in the night sky. The airship was moored to a makeshift gantry. The rope railed gangplank and moorings groaned and creaked as the airship was gently tugged by the night breeze. A dark figure silhouetted in the gondola doorway, looked down at the small group.

"Is this the one?" asked the dark figure with a surprisingly light tone of voice.

"Ay, he's the one they found it on," replied the officer.

"And the artefacts?" asked the figure.

The officer handed over Edward's pouch, before forcing him across the perilous gangplank to the waiting ship. The dark figure stepped back to let him enter the confined cabin space and immediately pushed him up against the polished wooden wall.

"Hands behind your back," the figure ordered, while exerting considerable force on Edward's neck, kept him off balance. With a quick practised motion Edward's hands were firmly bound. He was pulled back towards the centre of the room, and pushed into a chair, where he fell with a whack.

Before he could catch his breath the figure cast-off the airship, made tight the hatch and powered up the engines. Right behind his head Edward could hear the shumf-a-ma-whoomf, shumf-a-ma-whoomf, of the twin piston engines turning the ships propellers, each mounted on the end of a nacelle. The airship rose gracefully away from the tower. The figure was  occupied with the controls for the next few minutes, checking dials and adjusting knobs, turning wheels and pulling levers which controlled the craft. Edward looked around the weakly lit interior of the small wooden cabin, a single flickering gas light the sole source of illumination. Against one wall a ladder went up into the hull itself, while Edward was sat on one of two chairs fixed at the back of the cabin. Immediately forward of Edward was the captain's chair, a small wall mounted desk fitted to the left wall and the controls which sat on a dashboard in front of a single large porthole. Two smaller portholes were fitted in the port and starboard sides.

Satisfied with the aircraft's settings the hooded figure spun the captain's chair around to face Edward. Placing a black boot on the edge of Edward's seat, the figure flung back her dark hood to reveal long black silky hair and a distinctly feminine face.
