Chapter 1 – The golden dragonfly
Whoosh! Clonk! The massive brass steam engine churned with a mighty hiss. Edward could hear loud clanking noises comming from the engine as the main piston, larger than a man's head, shot back and forth, passing inches from his ear. He could tell from the noise that something was terribly wrong. The engine shouldn't sound that way. He listened as hot metal groaned and stretched under enormous pressure, followed by a sinister pop, whiz, clunk which he hoped wasn't, but probably was, a rivet popping. A violent hissing filled the engine room with steam. Black rivulets of condensed water ran down the dark stone walls and from the iron beams which supported the roof.

Edward realised he had to close off the main boiler valve, or the engine would blow, and in the confined space of the engine room he would undoubtedly be killed. Edward groped his way through a hot, fog filled, room, burning his exposed knuckles as he scrapped them on searingly hot pipes. The power wheel, which drove the belt for the mill, began rattling on its axle and the engine screamed as metal stretched to its limit under the pressure.

His fingers, numb from the heat, found the main valve and he turned it. The valve was far more resistant than it should have been. Edward put all his might into forcing the valve to move, but it was stuck fast. He searched desperately for something which would give him leverage. He spotted an iron bar leaning against the damp stone wall. Heaving the heavy metal rod in both arms Edward dropped it through the iron spokes of the valve and leant against the bar with every ounce of his strength. It resisted monetarily, then, with a loud crack, the wheel broke.

As the engine squealed, rivets popping hysterically, Edward ran for the door but it resisted his efforts to force it open. Trapped in desperation he shouted and banged on the solid wood, but knew it was no use, no one would hear him over the noise of the engine. He stumbled back towards the malevolent machine. If he could climb the gantry and crawl to the wheel release then the engine would no longer strain against the power wheel and should spin freely. He climbed the iron ladder which hung from the gantry, the rags he'd wrapped round his hands barely managing to keep the heat from searing his flesh. With the sound of tortured metal snapping, the gantry mountings broke and Edward was almost thrown off the ladder. He grasped blindly and gained a grip on the edge of the walkway which allowed engineers access to upper parts of the engine. With the gantry swinging dangerously above the hot shaking machine, Edward crawled on his hands and knees, slowly making his way towards the wheel release lever. He grasped the brass knob which topped the lever and gave it a tug. The lever clicked over, the engine gave a shudder and the power wheel ran free.

Energy flowed from the engine into the fly-wheel and it picked up speed, Edward wondered why then, was the boiler still supplying steam? he began the dangerous journey back along the gantry. The engine no longer sounded as angry as it had. He was sure, now the mill had lost power, someone would quickly come and investigate. They didn't like power outages at the mill, it interrupted production. He safely reached the ground and made his way over to the door. He gave it a good push but it wasn't budging, perhaps the wood had swollen with the steam, whatever, it was jammed shut. He heard muffled shouts and the sound hobnail boots running outside the engine room. Someone tried to open the door and swore. More shouting followed while Edward kept his eyes on the steam engine. The power wheel was spinning so quickly he couldn't see the huge iron spokes any more, they appeared as a solid disc of metal. Friction was causing the axial to heat up, already a dim orange glow was beginning to spread along the crucial rod.

Suddenly the sound of of wood splintering came from behind Edward. Someone was attacking the door with a big heavy object. Edward made sure he was clear of the doorway and a moment later it came crashing down. Four men in rough blue shirts with red kerchiefs tied round their necks and flat caps on their heads rushed into to the engine room.

"Quick, get out," Edward called, as he ran through the doorway and into the blessed relief of cold, fresh, air. His rescuers following a moment later.

One of the men grabbed Edward. "Did you shut off the main valve?" he asked urgently.

Edward shook his head and still coughing from the steam managed to say, "It stuck, it's broken."

"The boiler, shut down the boiler!" the engineer shouted, while placing a reassuring hand on Edward's shoulder. "Come on son, let's get you out of here." He led Edward across the yard to the warehouse door, where the mill workers were beginning to gather, watching the event. Edward sat, his legs dangling from the edge of the loading bay, his lungs still aching. He watched the steam pour from the engine room and heard the final strained screams and hisses of the dying engine.

As he watched, an almighty bang came from the engine room and part of the roof lifted clean off and came crashing to the ground, this set the mill girls screaming and crying.

"What's all this then?" a loud voice boomed across the yard. "Lets not have you all standing around gawking. Back into the sheds, there's work to be done," Mr Sniderby, the orphanage director shouted at the excited boys and girls.

"But the belt's stopped," a girl cried out.

"Never mind yourself about that Doris Perkins, get back in that shed the lot of you." Mr. Sniderby, his fat face red with anger, was not to be argued with. His sausage like finger pointing firmly at the shed door. Sniderby tapped his thick walking stick against the edge of his boot, a sinister gesture, indicating his boot might not be the only thing which could feel the sting of his stick. The mill workers ran back into the shed, only to turn and watch from the relative safety of the doorway.

Though not a cruel man, Sniderby was feared by the orphans for his quick temper and sharp eye. Any hint of disruption to productivity and and an unfortunate child would feel the wack of his stick across their back. Sniderby didn't tolerate excuses, slacking, joshing, talking, sickness, joking or laughter. He felt orphans should keep their minds on their work and he made sure they did.

"You, boy, Edward Blacksteel. What have you done?" Sniderby shouted at Edward as he strode across the yard. "You're responsible for the engine."

"Sir," Edward coughed. "Sir, it wasn't my fault, the main valve jammed."

"We'll see about it not being your fault boy. Do you know how long that engine will take to fix? Do you realise what that will do to mill production? We're not made of money boy, this is an orphanage, we have to make our own way in this world."

Edward just nodded, accepting The Director's unjust anger. There was nothing to be done unless he fancied a beating from Sniderby's stick. The engineers were good men, but they wouldn't interfere if Sniderby decided to beat him, it was more than their jobs were worth.

Sniderby was interrupted by a further explosion coming from the engine shed and he strode off in the direction of the boiler shouting. "Get that boiler stopped it's going to bring the place down around our ears."

Edward was grateful for the distraction, though he knew Sniderby wouldn't forget, for now he just needed to concentrate on breathing and resting his aching limbs. His knuckles stung and there were small red weals on the back of his fingers from the burns he'd received in the engine room.

"Are you all right?" a gentle voice asked him. Edward turned and looked up at the face of his friend and fellow orphan Anna. Crystal blue eyes, filled with concern, gazed at him. She pushed back a lock of auburn hair which had escaped from under her bonnet and crouched down next to him.

"You don't sound so good," she said, listening to him breath.

"I'll be fine in a bit, it's nothing really," he said.

"Let me get you something to drink," Anna offered. A moment later she returned with a tin cup filled with cool clear water. "There you go," she handed him the cup and he drank gratefully.

"You should lie down for a while," she told him.

"I can't," Edward said. "Sniderby thinks I'm responsible for the accident and he'll be wanting to take it out on me."

"Oh, he can't," Anna protested. But they both knew he could.

"You'd better get inside, Sniderby's coming back," Edward told her as he saw the plump, tweed clad figure, in his one size too small bowler hat, coming from the boiler shed.

Sniderby loomed over Edward who suddenly felt very tired and worn. Sniderby glowered down at the boy while his chubby fingers strummed on the stick.

"You're lucky boy," Sniderby said eventually. "The engineers that rescued you say the main valve was snapped clean off and the engine room door jammed shut. Well it's going to be weeks before the engine is repaired so you'll be looking after the tread-wheel donkeys 'til we  get our hands on a portable engine. Just be glad you didn't blow the boiler as well," Sniderby told him. "Well, don't lay about boy, get back to work." and with that the Director strode off back to his office to bark at his assistants.

As he sat on the cold stone loading bay, his head still ringing Edward's gaze lifted over the high brick walls of the orphanage and the sky above, which, to him, looked like a vast inverted map of a world he was prevented from ever visiting. As he gazed upward something caught his eye, a brief glint, a tiny golden flake of sparkling light which fell from a particularly dark cloud. He strained to see if it would happen again, and there it was, a glimmer in the air, and it seemed to grow closer. He thought he saw something falling towards him.

The mysterious object continued to descend in wide looping curves not unlike a golden leaf falling from an autumn bough, and all the while Edward hoped, no he wished, it would fall into the orphanage. His wish was to be granted as the strange thing fell lower and lower and all the while seemed to circle Edward himself until it hovered in the still air, just a foot or two above his blond head. The thing was now so close Edward could see it in detail. It appeared to be a dragonfly with a long jointed body, its wings buzzing so quickly they seemed to be smears of elfin gold. The golden dragonfly darted back and forth before him, dropped to eye level and turned as if to look directly at him.

Tentatively, Edward held his hand out to it, perhaps it needed somewhere to rest a moment. He had never seen such a beautiful thing in his life, its fairy dance quite mesmerised him. The golden dragonfly darted back and forth once more, then came to hover over his open palm, and now he could see it in exquisite detail, each segment of its body, and the wire-like legs which hung from its thorax. It came lower, the legs tickling Edward's palm, then it did something unexpected. The last two segments of body hinged upward and a tiny cylinder slid out and fell on to Edward's hand. The moment it had done this the dragonfly darted upwards and flew off over the high wall.

Edward looked down at his hand, and what the dragonfly had delivered. No longer constrained by the dragonfly's body a tiny half-inch cylinder started to unroll. With great care Edward took it and stretched it out into a strip of paper with a message on it, and its words both startled and shocked Edward, not least because the first words of the message were his name. 'Edward Blacksteel: Your life is in great danger. Leave now!'

That night lying in bed his body aching, Edward thought about all the strange things which had happened over the last few weeks all seemingly separate yet now somehow connected. First, several weeks ago, he'd been walking to the mill shed, when a brick fell from the roof and missed him by only a foot. At the time he'd given it no further thought. If it had hit him it would most certainly have killed him, or at least left him severely injured, but it had missed. Everyone knew Sniderby didn't keep the orphanage in the best of upkeep. But now he thought he might take a closer look at the roof in the morning, too see just how loose the bricks really were.

Then there had been the accident that killed poor Henry Blacksteel, who along with Anna, was Edward's longest and closest friend. They were about the same age, arriving at the orphanage within a few weeks of each other. As with Edward, Henry was a foundling and as such was given the name of the orphanage as his sire-name, Blacksteel Orphanage, named for the town that supported it, Blacksteel in the West Yorkshire Ridings. The loom which Henry had been working that fateful day had shaken loose in it's moorings just as Henry went to retrieve the shuttle and the machines' jaws had closed on him, crushing his chest and killing him instantly.

Other things began to bother Edward. There was the loose bolt on the engine room gantry, luckily he'd spotted and fixed it before it became really dangerous. Then there was the grease spillage on the high walkway only last week, right where Edward normally stood to operate the power wheel level. None of these things were, in themselves, particularly suspicious but put all together, with today's events... If he was right, who could he tell? Someone was trying to kill him? Was he the only one in danger? He should tell Anna about his fears certainly, but who else? Not Sniderby that was for sure. He could speak to the engineers but he didn't think they'd believe him.

Unable to sleep with these thoughts tumbling in his mind Edward crept from the dormitory in his stocking feet, boots in hand. He was hungry, having felt too sick to eat earlier and he'd missed supper which comprised of bread and beef dripping with a handful of dried fruit, not exactly the fare they ate up at the Manor, but right now, he'd be grateful for anything. He hoped someone was still in the kitchen, Mrs. Chubjoy, if he was lucky, she was kindly and nice, loved by the orphans and known to give small gifts of extra food and clothing to the most needy children, when Sniderby wasn't looking of course. Edward knew if there was no one in the kitchen it would be locked and he'd be hungry all night.

As he tiptoed along the corridor to the stairs he noticed a chink of light come from under Sniderby's door and heard the low rumble of voices deep in conversation. Who could be visiting Sniderby in his rooms at this time of night? he crept passed the stairs and tiptoed up as close as he dared to Sniderby's office.

He heard two male voices, one of them unmistakably Sniderby, the other he didn't recognise. Sniderby laughed, startling Edward and making him drop a boot. Fortunately the occupants of the room didn't hear the thump as it fell to the floor. Edward carefully picked up his boot and continued to listen.

The voice which he didn't recognise was saying something about an imperial agent, and something about the local magistrate. It seemed the imperial agent didn't trust the local magistrate and he'd asked the owner of the mysterious voice to do something for him. It was unclear what, but Edward had a suspicion.

He tried to hear more but the voices fell low, then he heard Sniderby say, "Don't you worry about that idiot constable. Let the imperial agent look after that side of things. You know what you have to do."

Edward heard chairs drawn across the floor and guessed Sniderby's guest was rising to leave.

"Make sure of it," the other voice said, getting louder as he came closer to the door.

"You just do your job, if you'd got it right in the first place there'd be no need for the constable to be poking his nose in anyway."

Edward heard a foot scrape on the other side of the door and not having time to get back to the dormitory he scurried to the top of the stairs. Sniderby's door opened and Edward was forced down the stairs to the floor below where he stood in the shadows and prayed the mysterious visitor would pass on down without looking his way. He heard Sniderby's door close and foot steps on the stairs. Edward pressed himself against the wall making himself as flat as possible. A shadow fell on the bare wooden boards in the stairwell, followed by a figure who wore a work shirt, a red kerchief and a flat cap. One of the engineers Edward thought.

The man continued down the stairs and past the dark corridor along which Edward hid. That he was an engineer Edward was now certain, but from behind, he couldn't tell who. All thoughts of hunger went from his mind. None of it made sense but there didn't seem to be any other explanation. He had to warn Anna and he had to escape the orphanage, not an easy task, the orphanage did not like to see it's little workers walk out the gates before they were sixteen, after which it couldn't get rid of them quick enough. As a ward of the orphanage who's age was uncertain, Edward wasn't due to leave  for almost a year, his official birthday being the day he had been brought to the gates.

He had tell Anna about the dragonfly message and the conversation he had overheard. Could he afford to wait till morning? Could he sneak into the girls dormitory undetected? Probably not, he'd never been in their dormitory and didn't know which bed was Anna's. He'd have to wake the girls up and ask them and then Mrs. Thackery would be disturbed and she'd catch him. He didn't know what the punishment for being in the girls dormitory was, but it would be severe and if it involved a stay in the orphanage correction house it could leave him vulnerable. No he'd have to wait until tomorrow to warn Anna. It would give him time to plan and prepare for his escape.

He decided to go back to his bed and try to get some rest and plan as best he could for what was to come.
