Chapter 28 – The New League
"My it is good to see you," cried Edward, when Lord Percy had finished hugging his sister. "But what are you doing here?"

"When I heard you were headed for the Fortress of Eternal Shadow I couldn't just let you go without backup, so soon as I was able, I persuaded Captain Echart to let me bring the Valiant and the Gallant to provide support. We came as quickly as we could, but it looks like we have missed most of the action."

"You came in the nick of time I think. Darkmere's soldiers were beginning to get the better of us, poor Ra Chet is quite unwound, and I'm sure Jahshalid and his men will thank you for ridding them of the metal monsters," said Edward.

"You must be tired. We head for the Countess of Wetherby and are due to dock with her in a few hours time, in the Bay of Bengal," Percy informed him.

"Excellent," replied Edward, "and from there we can on to Apethorpe Manor and some well earned rest I hope."

The two airships arrived at the Countess of Wetherby without incident and the adventurers spent the next few days relaxing and recovering aboard the gargantuan aerostat. Several hours south of Ireland they transferred back to the Valiant for the final leg of the journey.

The day they returned to Apethrope was as bright as the day on which Edward had first seen the austere yet regal manor. The grass had grown a little longer since his last visit, the hedges and flowerbeds, while untended, were in full bloom, creating a riot of colour, echoed by the lawns which held a scattering of cornflowers, poppies and buttercups.

Edward flanked by Lady Carmine and Lady Emily led the adventures towards the house.

"It is good to be home again," said Carmine, "It will feel strange without Daddy here, though the house will be filled with people for the first time in a long while. I should think it needs a good cleaning after all this time."

She was right. Clouds of dust hung in the still stale air.

"Well lets to making this house seem like a home again," announced Edward, "What needs doing?"

Everyone started enthusiastically rushing about, opening curtains, pulling the covers of the furniture, and generally making a bigger mess. It didn't take Lady Emily long to bring them to order as the only one with any idea of how to run a large household she began portioning out chores. She sent her brother and Ra Chet to tend the gardens, Merryman and Murgatroyd went to fire up the house boilers and get the engine running. Soon they had the vacuum system pumping away. Edward and Rob found themselves vacumizing the rooms with special hoses which connected to hidden vents in the walls and which magically sucked all the dust away.

With windows thrown open and curtains drawn, fresh air and sunlight poured into the house. Chesterton fired up the cooking range in the kitchens and soon had plenty of hot tea ready and a fine stew bubbling away.

Lady Carmine and Lady Emily collected all the linens and put them to wash in large tubs powered by the house engine.

Very quickly the house acquired a new air, one of a home being lived in, filled with light and air and the happy chatter and laughter of people. That evening they all sat down round the kitchen table and partook of Chesterton's excellent stew.

"I want you to know," Carmine said to Edward, after swallowing a mouthful of rich gravy and freshly baked bread, "That this is as much your home as mine. I know you don't have anywhere else to go, and I would be pleased if you would treat Apethorpe manor as your home," she offered.

"That would be nice," replied Edward, "I don't ever remember having a home before, but what about Rob, he has no home since the cave was burnt out."

"He is very welcome to stay here as well," she replied. "Have you thought more about the League? You know everyone here is prepared to follow you wherever you would lead. Perhaps you should reform the League as my father wished."

"You are right. Our recent adventure will have aroused the interest of the Emperor and the Guardians of the One Tree, we need to look out for each other." replied Edward. "Yes, let us make it official, I shall call the first meeting of the reformed League of the White Rose."

"Let us to the secret rooms," said Lady Carmine.

They followed her to her father's old study, which was just as they had left it a few weeks earlier.

Edward, Rob, Carmine and Ra Chet activated the secret code which opened the lair beneath the study and they descended the stone steps filing into the meeting chamber.

"Firstly," said Carmine, "I want to call a formal meeting of the new League of the White Rose, and, assuming he is willing, to accept Edward York as the head of the League."

Edward assented to this then each took a place at the table. Once they were all settled Edward looked around at them.

"I suppose I should say a few words at this point," he said. "Welcome friends to the inaugural meeting of the League of the White Rose. As you know the League was previously under the leadership of Victor II, Richard York, my father, now it is our turn. I am aware that several people here had dealings with the old League and I hope we can live up to the level they set."

"Our numbers are few and our enemies many, we face the Emperor in Parentis, the so called Victor III, my Uncle, on the one hand and on the other, the mysterious Guardians of the One Tree, the Brotherhood of the Light."

"But we have fought side-by-side, we have crossed half the world together and returned home safely. We have made powerful allies of our own and can rely, to some extent, on support from my Uncle the Duke of Northumberland."

"However, for now we must remain hidden, secret, no one outside this room must know of the League or who is in it. While we here accept I am indeed the Infante, I would ask that outside these four walls you call me Mr. Black."

Edward stood and held his sword across the table, "To complete the formalities of the League, I pronounce you all Knights of the League of the White Rose and as Infante I wish to bestow particular honours on Robert Badger and Chesterton, if you would both be so good as to come over here."

The two left their seats an approached. Edward drew his sword and instructed Rob to kneel.

"I dub thee Sir Roger Badger, Knight of the League of the White Rose, arise Sir Roger," Roger stood, bowed and stepped back.

"Chesterton, you know I don't know your first name, do you have one?" asked Edward as the man knelt.

For the first and probably only time, Chesterton seemed a little embarrassed.

"It is Clarence, your Highness," he replied solemnly.

"I dub thee Sir Clarence Chesterton, Knight of the League of the White Rose, arise Sir Clarence."

"We should celebrate our newly founded allegiance," said Sir Robert.

"Indeed we should," agreed Captain Legate. At that moment a sound rang out through the Manor.

"We have visitors," said Carmine recognising the door's bell.

They rushed up stairs to see who it might be. Robert opened the door while the rest waited. He flung the door wide and stepped back allowing the Duke and Duchess of Bath to enter. Lady Emily rushed forward into her mother's arms.

"Your safe, we were so worried," the Duchess sobbed with joy.

A third figure entered behind the Baths, a lone female figure who looked tentatively around the hall.

"Anna," cried Edward recognising his old friend and rushing across the room took her up in his arms and gave her such a hug. "But how is it you are here?" he asked.

"You have Lady Carmine to thank," said the Duke of Bath. "She suggested Mildred, er, um, that is the Duchess, persuade the Blatchington-smythes to let Anna into her service, and now we have brought her here to you, it really is the least we could do."

"It seems we have a lot to celebrate," cried Edward. "Let us have music and dancing and wine."


To everyone's surprise Captain Legate was an entertaining pianist. He flung of the dust cover from the grand piano in the ballroom and was soon bashing out merry tunes. Chesterton produced bottles of champagne from the Manor's cellars and as the Captain began to tire of playing Mr. Murgatroyd found a gramophone and a collection of musical recordings which he played through the large horn on top of the gramophone, while Ra Chet, who could not dance, kept the music box adequately wound.

As the evening wore on, music floated through the Manor as it had not done so for a long time, Edward found himself on the ballroom terrace enjoying the cool evening air.

"Cigar?" said the Duke of Bath offering him a fat sweet smelling roll of tobacco.

"You know boy," he continued once they had lit their smokes, "if the rumours of the Infante's return are true, there are many who would rally to his cause. Victor the III has not endeared himself to the people or the aristocracy, there are many looking, hoping, for a change, many who feel our world could be so much a better place, the situation with the Orphanages and workhouses, conditions in the factories, the constant hostilities with our European neighbours, the terror of the Emperor's Secret Police, the dissenting voices that disappear in the night, oh yes my boy, there are many reasons for change in these times, but people are fearful, they will not rise without a strong leader to follow, they will not risk their own necks lightly."

"If such a person existed, and they were able to gain the confidence of the people, then they would be able to overthrow the Emperor and take their rightful place. Oh yes, these are interesting times my boy, interesting, and dangerous." The duke looked long into Edward's eye.

"Edward, Edward," Carmine cried running lightly across the terrace, "we need you inside," she took hold of his arm, "If I may Lord Trafford?" with that she pulled Edward back to the ballroom and thrust a glass in his hand.

"A toast, a toast," went up the cry from all around.

Using a chair Edward stepped up on the table. Holding out one hand to quieten the room he raised his glass above his head with the other.

"I propose a toast to us all, to the fortune of our meeting and to our new enterprise... I propose a toast to the League of the White Rose."
