Chapter 9 – Lost in the desert
The woman smiled at Edward with a sense of self satisfaction, of a job well done. She looked him up and down, and appeared not to entirely disapprove of what she saw. Leaning forward and placing her hand on his knees, she said mater of factly, "So your the one who's been giving us the run-a-round."

Edward looked steadily into clear blue eyes, which slanted at the corners in a delightful way, giving her face an attractive oriental hint. Her pure white skin and ruby red lips lent a doll like aspect to her appearance. She returned his look for a moment before saying, "Ah, yes, I'm forgetting myself. We haven't been properly introduced. I'm Lady Carmine Augustus, Baronetess of Apethorpe, Agent to his Imperial Highness Victor III. You are Edward Black, or should I call you Edward Blacksteel or Edward York?" she smiled at him.

Edward was surprised. She knew his real name, so she must have traced him from the orphanage, or at least suspect him of being the same, but he'd never used York as a name. Where had she got that from? He was about to ask her when they were interrupted by a loud banging from the hull. Lady Augustus leapt from her chair as a heavy figure dropped from the roof hatch.

The tiny cabin, which had been cosy with just the two of them, was now crowded. Lady Augustus waisted not a moment however and was instantly upon the newcomer. A brief struggle ensued, but it was clear the new arrival never stood a chance. On her home ground and seemingly adept at fighting in confined spaces, she delivered a blow to the solar plexus and in a moment the intruder was bound, sitting wheezing and groaning next to Edward.

"Who do we have here then?" Lady Augustus asked, once she'd smoothed down her black silk clothes and run a hand through slightly dishevelled hair, "one of your little friends Edward?"

Looking across Edward saw his friend Rob struggling valiantly against his bonds, half rising from his chair he was pushed back into it again by the firm toe of Lady Augustus's boot. Rob gave her an angry stare and glowered menacingly at her.

"Perhaps you would be good enough to introduce us Edward?" Lady Augustus said a slight wry note in her voice.

"Lady Carmine Augustus. Robert Badger," Edward said simply.

"Ah yes, the Seaman, your known associate. I'd give up the struggle if I were you Robert. You should be dead already and it's a situation I can rectify instantly."

"Dead!" exclaimed Edward.

"Indeed Edward, or should I address you as your highness?" Lady Augustus asked mysteriously.

Edward wondered if making as little sense as this was a common trait amongst women or exclusive to Lady Augustus. Dead? Why was it the Empire wanted everyone he met dead? Who was Edward York? This had to be some sort of mistake.

"I'm not sure I follow you," Edward said flatly.

"You are Edward York," Lady Augustus said slowly and clearly as if he were an idiot.

"No I'm not. I'm Edward Blacksteel," Edward replied in the same tone.

Lady Augustus narrowed her eyes and glared at him. "You're Edward York, the ring proves it. There's no point in denying it." Lady Augustus said coldly.

"So I have Edward of York's ring then? and the letter?" he asked.

"From your Mother Elisabeth York, written in the Imperial Tongue," Lady Augustus responded. She looked at him quizzically. "You don't expect me to believe you know nothing of this, do you?"

Edward didn't respond.

A look of puzzlement crossed Carmine's face, followed by realisation, "you don't know do you?" she laughed dryly. "Oh my. You don't know who you are? I can't believe it," her attitude towards him now seemed a touch less cold and hostile.

"No, I think you're having me on. You must know..." at that moment the airship shook violently as a great crunching and a painful screech came from the port boiler. Lady Augustus was up in a moment and fighting with the airship controls. Despite her efforts the ship lurched first one way and then another. Dizzily watching the night time starscape through the front porthole Edward saw they were descending rapidly.

Lady Augustus shouted something at the two boys, but it was impossible to hear her over the noise of tortured metal and the rush of wind from the airships' erratic manoeuvres. The airship sunk low in the ten minutes it took Lay Augustus to bring the craft under some sort of control. The port engine was damped completely and it's boiler vented, the starboard engine still chugged but at a vastly reduced rate.

"Brace yourselves," Lady Augustus called out, "we're going to have a bumpy landing," a moment later the airship shuddered and a loud scrapping sound came from below. Lady Augustus released the anchors, but a moment too late, as the airship hit a tree. The occupants were thrown forward with the loud tearing, cracking, sound of trees splitting and hull timbers snapping. A long dreadful screech, followed by silence. 

The gas lamps had long blown out by the time Edward recovered consciousness, leaving him surrounded by darkness. As his eyes accustomed themselves to the night he was able to make out rough shapes. Stars shone through the porthole outlining a stark black silhouette, which he took to be the tree, or what was left of it. The floor of the gondola, or what he assumed was the floor, sat at a steep angle. After struggling a while he managed to get his hands free of the ropes which bound them. He fumbled round the cabin, first for something to lean on, then to investigate the dark shapes.

A few minutes later he'd found the door and two warm bodies and dragged them both out into the silver moonlit desert. Rob groaned as Edward propped him up against a rock and untied him. Rob rubbed his head with his hands. Lady Augustus remained still and silent.

"Is she dead you think?" Rob asked looking over at her supine body.

"I don't know. I don't think so. How do you tell?" Edward replied crouching over her.

"Does she feel warm? Is she breathing?" asked Rod.

"I think so, I think she's breathing," replied Edward.

"Probably alive then. I think we should tie her up, or we'll have trouble when she comes to," advised Rob.

Edward agreed with the proposed precaution and soon they had Lady Augustus tied hand and foot with the very ropes which had, until recently, bound them. Edward wanted to return to the airship to look for supplies but it was still too dark so they settled down and rested a while. A gentle breeze played amongst the rough strewn rocks, blowing on the scrub bush which littered the sandy desert floor and tugging at the edges of the boys clothing. A clear night sky gave them a panoramic view of the stars and a waning moon which slowly slide towards the far horizon.

"How did you get into the airship?" Edward asked, while they waited for dawn to break.

"On my way to the barracks, after an ale in the garrison mess I was, and passing the Adjutants' open window I heard your Lady here and the Duty Officer talking about you and how she was going to take you away, so I ran up the tower to her airship, sneaked in and hid in the hull. Not long after that I heard her come back. I could hear her move around in the cabin for a few minutes, then you came along and we all took off. I hadn't meant to reveal myself when I did but I slipped and caused a noise so that was it. Then she jumped me," he added with a hint of embarrassment.

"She seems very good at what she does," Edward commiserated. "I suppose she's had better training than we have."

"If that's supposed to make me feel any better about it, I still don't like being beat by a girl," said Rob. "What was she saying when I interrupted you two? Something about Edward York?"

"Yes she called me Edward York." replied a perplexed Edward.

"You don't know who Edward York is?" asked Rob.

"Not really, should I?"

"Edward York is a figure of mystery. The Missing Infante. The official story goes; A year or two after the death of Victor the second, the Infante Edward died of a childhood disease. The unofficial story is that Edward never died but was spirited away by a secret society loyal to his father to protect him from his Uncle, Victor the third," explained Rob.

"I remember hearing that story as a child. Everyone in the orphanage likes to think they're the child of Lord this or Lady that and that someday their true parents will come looking for them. As the years pass and no one comes, well you give up on those kind of stories," Edward said, with sadness in his voice.

A thought occurred to him. "Carmine said I had Edward's ring, Edward of York's ring. She thinks I'm this missing Infante."

"Are you?" asked Rob.

"I don't think so. How can I be?"

"You do have the ring, which you say your mother gave you," replied Rob.

"Well yes, but, I don't suppose it can be that ring, otherwise that would make..." he paused to think about it.

"Queen Elisabeth consort to Victor the third your mother," Rob interrupted. "She married Victor the second's brother after his death."

"I have to agree with Carmine, it's unbelievable that I would know nothing of this if I were the Infante," said Edward.

"Well that may as be, but it seems to me, if your to die for being him, either you'd better be him, or you'd better get the matter straightened," advised Rob.

"It's quite a lot to take in. Yesterday I was enjoying the life of a simple sailor. Today I'm a fugitive from the Empire. All I did was run away from the orphanage and go to sea."

"Plus we are lost in a desert with a broken airship and a dangerous prisoner. We don't know where we are, which way to go or whose territory we're in. If were still in British Colonial America then we've probably had it," said Rob.

"Looks like we're going to need Lady Augustus's help," remarked Edward. "I hope she's going to be alright."

As they talked dawn broke and the first rays of morning light threw long dark shadows from the rocks. The wind picked up and the temperature began to rise.

"I think it's light enough to search the airship for supplies," said Edward.

Loose items had been thrown about the cabin during the crash and most had accumulated in the lowest corner. The airship sat at an angle which made it awkward to move around inside. Up in the rounded hull the going was easier and they soon found a satchel containing food. Rob turned up a couple of bottles of wine to boot.

They decided it was wiser to move Lady Augustus into the shade of the airship as their landing had destroyed the only shade tree for miles around. Lady Augustus lay quiet as the dead while the boys took stock of their supplies. In addition to wine they had found,  the satchel contained a little bread and cheese, a half a salted salami and dried figs. About enough for one meal each if they included Lady Augustus. The boys sat looking across the desert towards the distant mountains and felt the heat of the day.

"Looks like we're in a right spot," Rob said, mopping at his brow with dusty shirt tails.

Edward nodded in agreement. Things certainly looked bleak, and for the moment, he had no ideas. This was completely unfamiliar terrain to Edward and Rob, they had no idea what to do to survive, though staying out of the heat seemed a good idea. Even in the shade they soon began to feel thirsty.

"We could drink the wine," suggested Rod.

"We will, but I don't think that's going to be enough, wait, I've got it, the airship boiler, that will have water."

"How do we get it out?" asked Rob.

"Don't worry about that, I think I know enough about engines to work out how to drain the boilers in an airship. We need to find some tools though. You look for tools, and I'll inspect the engines," said Edward.

The two set about their tasks in earnest. Despite the heat and the difficult angle of the airship it wasn't long before Edward was able to locate the draining valves.

"We need to drink a bottle of wine now," said Edward.

"I applaud your vigour," replied Rob, "but why?"

"We need the bottle as a container for the engine water, we don't have anything else."

"Good point. We'd better set too then," Rob said producing a corkscrew from the pile of things he'd liberated from the airship.

They popped the cork on a bottle and took it in turns to swig down the wine. "Not a bad vintage," remarked Rob with a devilish grin on his face. "Well you need to get used to saying such things now you're royalty," he teased.

"Well if I have to be royalty then I guess I'm making you my Prime-Muddler. You can call me 'Your Highness' or 'Your Loftyness' and I shall call you Sir Badger of Muddles or First Muddler Badger and you must bow so low your head is below your feet."

"I like your kind of thinking my liege and as your First Muddler may I add that all the populace should carry a potato at all times, in case of emergency."

"An excellent idea Sir Badger, now please pass the wine of excellent vintage and stop hogging it all for yourself."

The bottle, now more than half empty, was passed and Edward took another swig. "Do you think her Ladyship would like a drop of this excellent vintage?" he asked waving the bottle in her general direction. "I think I'll see if she does," he got up and swayed momentarily before crossing the sand to Lady Augustus's prone form. Pressing the lip of the bottle against her mouth he poured a generous amount into her mouth.

"Do you think she appreciates it," asked Edward. "She doesn't seem to have a view on it." Suddenly Lady Augustus started, coughing and choking she tried to sit upright. Edward bent quickly and eased her position.

"You are awake at last," said Edward.

"So it would seem," Lady Augustus replied frostily, "and you are drunk."

"That's quite possible," Edward agreed affably. "Would you like to be too?"

"You do realise that we're in the middle of a desert with no idea of where we are?"

"I bet you know which desert were in though eh?" asked Edward.

"And why am I tied up?" she asked.

"You're dangerous," replied Edward. "You tied us up, now it's our turn to tie you up. Now which desert are we in?"

"Ha, you think I'm going to tell you?" she replied angrily. "Perhaps if you untie me I might, just might, put in a good word for you when I'm rescued."

"Oh, and how do you think that's going to happen? How's anyone going to find us in this place?"

"Never you mind," retorted Lady Augustus, "find me they will and when that happens then well …" she let her words trail off.

"Not really helping your case your Ladyship," Rob called across at her.

"Just you wait, I'm important, there will be an Imperial Corvette coming over the horizon any moment and when it does the tables will be turned once again Edward York."

"There you go with the Edward York thing again. Who is this Edward York?"

"You know full well who you are."

"I'm Edward Blacksteel."

"And Edward York."

"Edward York is dead."

"That now seems rather unlikely don't you think?" retorted Lady Augustus. "The ring proves it, besides which you look like your father, Richard York, Victor the second of the British Empire."

"So your telling me I'm the Missing Infante?"

"Yes."

"And why do you want to capture me?"

"I would have thought that obvious. As the Infante you're next in line of the throne after your father, that would make Victor the third a caretaker monarch, and since the birth of his son Harold York, your step-brother, you now stand in the way. I guess it was all going fine for you until it was discovered you hadn't died as a child."

"How did I end up in an orphanage? Why did it happen?"

"How should I know? I was sent to kill or capture you."

"Quiet, quiet you two," said Rob urgently. They fell quiet. "Do you hear that?" asked Rob, "I think it's the sound of engines."

All three fell silent and the hot silence of the desert swept over them. The breeze dragged grains of sand across the ground, rattled the tumble-weed and whistled through the airship wreckage, a cricket chirped here and there and in the far distance, possibly, just possibly, the regular whumpf whumpf of an engine could occasionally be heard, or imagined.

Edward got up and shielded his eyes from the sun with a hand, he searched the skies. Eventually he spotted something, a small grey dot in the blue distance slowly growing bigger.

"We'd better get out of here," said Rob.

"You wont get far," said Lady Augustus. "They can probably see you already through their telescope."

"She's right," said Edward, "There's no way were going to escape the eyes aboard that, and if we did, what chance do we have in the desert?"

The appearance of the airship put the boys in a sober mood as they waited pensively for the craft to arrive. The distant thump of the engines grew steadily louder and louder until the shadow of the ship fell across the boys. As they looked up at the hull floating high above them it began to descend and rope ladders fell from port and starboard bows.

Moments later four sailor's clambered adroitly down the ladders and walked across the sand towards the damaged airship. Two more men followed the sailors at a more relaxed pace. Upon seeing the boys and Lady Augustus, seated in the shade of the crashed airship, one of the sailors cried," Hoy there you, stay where you are," and turning to the men following shouted, "There are survivors Sir."

At this the two men picked up pace and approached the airship.

"What have we here?" The taller of the two asked as he stood over the shipwrecked trio.

"Lady Carmine Augustus, Baronetess of Apethorpe. I do believe Captain," said the shorter one of the pair, a sandy haired man with a round pleasant face.  He wore a crumpled white linen suit and a white trilby hat which had not prevented his face from reddening in the hot Texan sun.

"and someone has already packaged her up nice and neat for us," the Captain remarked, indicating her bonds.

"Just so," the other continued, "I presume then, that this is..." he stood back a moment rubbing his chin and looking at the two dejected boys sat on the sand in their dishevelled seaman's uniforms. "Edward York," the round faced man announced pointing at Edward who was astonished at this apparent magic. How could this man he had never met possibly pick him out? Mind he had a fifty percent chance of doing so.

This is it, thought Edward. Now I'm done for, these men will finish the job Carmine was supposed to. However, throughout this exchange Lady Augustus had remained noticeably silent and when the airship sailors failed to fall upon Edward and Rob, Edward began to wonder if this was Lady Augustus's promised rescuers after all.

"I am Edward York, or at least Lady Augustus thinks I am," said Edward.

"I'm Gordon MacArthur, Lord Northumberland's' Agent," the man said then turning to Rob continued, "And you are Robert Badger I presume. You both must be hot and tired, please come aboard the A. S. Valiant with us." He noticed Edward cast a glance at Lady Augustus. "Don't worry about her, she is comming too," he smiled.

Feeling bemused and with little choice in the matter, as far he could see, Edward got up from the sand and followed the captain and MacArthur to a rope ladder which dangled from the airship, now so low, it floated barley a man's head above the desert floor.

The A.S. Valiant was considerably larger than Lady Augustus's airship, with a crew of seven and space for eight passengers. The gondola contained the engines and helm while accommodation in the form of tiny cabins, a modest galley and lounge were housed in the hull.

Edward made himself comfortable in the lounge, watching from the port window as the Valiant gained hight. He was surprised when an airshipman in a pristine white uniform asked him if he would care for a drink? Edward had not experienced being waited on before and relished the novelty. He asked for a beer and was dully brought the finest example of the brew he'd ever tasted.

"This is the life eh?" Rob said, nudging Edward and laughing. He agreed with is friend, but couldn't help feeling a certain sense of unease about their situation.
