Chapter 21 – Darkmere escapes
The steam-car rattled along at a good pace throwing up a fine cloud of summer dust behind it. They soon put Bristol and Bastilion Hall behind them as they raced through the verdant English countryside. Through small square dusty windows Edward watched passing fields  of golden wheat, ripening in the sun, fat contented cows lazily chewing summer grass and orchards of apples and pears, each bough beginning to bend from the weight of its growing fruits.

As dusk fell they found themselves on the Cornish peninsular with a good distance to Blackwater Castle still before them. Chesterton halted the steam-car at a modest inn on the high road. Everyone dismounted and stretched their aching limbs, relieved after so long in the confines of the car. Even Ra Chet took a quick stroll around the vehicle, though he quickly returned to stand and wait by the open door. Clearly conserving his energy, while Chesterton oversaw the loading of more fuel and water for the vehicle.

Edward checked his watch, only an hour before sundown. As he tucked the timepiece back into his pocket he noticed Ra Chet taking an interest in it, but the mechanical man only looked, and made no comment.

Edward, Carmine, Rob and Percy made themselves comfortable in the lounge bar of the Fallen Horse Inn and took food and ale, while they watched the Innkeeper's sons wheel out a fresh barrel of oil and taking the recently emptied one from its place on the back of the car, heaved its heavy wooden replacement onto the holding brackets and Chesterton fired up the car's furnace and began the process of heating up the boiler. He joined the others for a hurried bite of supper while the car built up a good head of steam.

They set off once more as the last light of day was fading. The road ahead wove its way through twisting marshes. Here thin trees pointed crooked fingers at the dark dank waters in which they stood. An eerie wind came off the marshes carrying the stench of unmentionable things rotting in the foetid waters and the strained cries of water fowl and marsh beast, sounds which sent a chill through the group.

"I'm not sure I like it out here," said Percy.

"It IS a bit creepy," confessed Carmine.

"It's just the woods at night," said Rob, "They are no danger."

"These marshes are," insisted Percy, "There are bogs and treacherous mires out here which will suck you down into their muddy waters leaving not a trace behind."

"But we are all-right if we stick to the road right?" asked Edward.

"Well I don't know," said Percy, "but I suppose we are."

"Hush, listen," said Carmine.

They all listened for a moment. "Can you hear that?" she asked.

"Engine sounds fine," said Edward.

"No not that, sounds like a horse, I think someone is following us." Even as she spoke the sound of horses hooves became clearer over the chug-chuging engine noise of the steam-car.

Edward popped the hatch in the roof of the car and stuck his head out, sure enough a horseman was quickly coming upon them from behind.

"Hey Chesterton, we are being followed," he shouted to the leather helmeted Chesterton who glanced over his shoulder at Edwards cry.

"Can we go any faster?" called Edward.

"Fraid not Sir," came the reply, "We will just have to let him catch us, then we will find out what his business is for sure."

A few minutes later the horseman caught them up. He appeared to be alone, and as he drew level with Chesterton he called out.

"Chesterton? Is that you?"

"It is," Chesterton called back, "and who might you be?"

"It's me, Simon, Captain Proctor-Legate," the horseman cried back.

Hearing the horseman shout out to Chesterton, Edward opened the hatch and stuck his head out again.

"Captain Legate is that you?" he called.

"Ah, young Edward, glad to see you are safe. I've had the devil of a time catching up with you."

"Its Captain Legate," Edward told the occupants of the car, "seems like he's found us at last," he laughed.

The Captain, on horseback, was able to lead the way and they picked up more speed, never-the-less it was two hours in the cramped confines of the steam-car's cabin before they caught sight of Blackwater Castle. As they turned a final bend the steam-car emerged from the marshes to chug up the low hill upon which stood the castle. The moon had risen and threw a silver light casting the Castle in stark silhouette, its thick walls and heavy battlements looking black and impenetrable. From a tower high above the castle courtyard a single yellow light showed from a solitary window.

"Perhaps that is the room my sister is being held in," said Percy.

As they drew closer to the castle it was clear the drawbridge was down and the steam-car was able to rumble over the thick wooden planking into the deserted courtyard. Edward, Percy and Rob leapt from the car as Percy began calling out for Darkmere, "Vilners, Vilners, I know your here, It's Lord Trafford and I want to speak to my sister."

His cries were met with dank silence. The wind played with their hair and coat tails, a door creaked, somewhere water dripped from a cracked pipe into a butt, the place seemed deserted. Percy reached the front door and rattled it, the noise echoed across the courtyard.

"Where is everyone?" asked Edward, "The soldiers and the staff? Is the castle deserted?Perhaps we should start searching for a way in, see if Darkmere has left any clue to his whereabouts."

At that moment the castle door swung open and figure silhouetted lamplight looked out. "Who comes to the castle at this time of night?" a sleepy male voice called out.

"It is I, Lord Trafford," replied Percy.

"And your business here at this hour my Lord?"

"I wish to see Lord Darkmere on a matter most urgent."

"You had better come in then, I suppose."

They followed the figure into the castle, their footsteps ringing on the bare stone floor as they past between the suits of armour which stood guard either side of the doorway.  Great black banners bearing stark red motifs hung from the walls on iron rods tipped with dragons' heads.

"Wait here my Lord," the doorman said, lighting a lamp and disappearing down a dark corridor.

Several minutes passed before they heard footsteps approaching. A light appeared at the top of the stairs and began descending slowly, as the light reached the top of the grand staircase a voice called, "Who is it?"

"It is Sir Percy, Lord Trafford of Wells, and who might you be?" replied Percy.

The light came further down the stairs until they made out a man dressed in a monks' habit. Edward couldn't help thinking he had the most unlikely face for a monk. The man wore his grey hair cut short, and sported a small grey beard which failed to hide the distinct features of a fighter. Edward saw the man's muscles bulging under his habit. If he was a monk, he was not of a peace loving, fruit picking order, that was for sure.

"I am Brother Sancticus of the Order of the Light of God, personal advisor to Lord Darkmere in matters both spiritual and temporal."

"If you would be so good then as to advise his Lordship that I wish to speak with him about his involvement in my sister's disappearance," said Percy.

"His Lordship has my confidence, and asks I aid your enquiries. As to your sister, I know nothing of her and can assure you His Lordship would never be involved in any such thing."

"Your assurances are hollow priest," replied Percy, a little annoyed at the man's attitude, "We know Vilners is involved, whatever you may say, and as you either know nothing, or will not tell, again I ask, where is Vilners? Is he here?"

"I am not at liberty to say where his Lordship is at this very moment."

"Then you are not much of an emissary as you seem to know nothing of use." Percy retorted. "I will search this castle until I find some trace of him." With that Percy grabbed up the lamp and headed for the stairs.

"I'm afraid I can't let you do that your Lordship," said Brother Sancticus, as he moved swiftly to intercept Percy.

Edward glanced at Rob, unable to let Percy rush alone, he gave him a nod. As one, the two boys drew swords and leapt to Percy's aid.

"I think you will permit it," said Edward, pressing his sword point into the surprised monk's neck. "Indeed I think you will lead the way to Darkmere's apartments."

Sheathing his sword Rob took out his pistol and waived it at Brother Sancticus, "of we go then," he said.

Brother Sancticus led them up the stairs from whence he'd come, over the great staircase and on to a narrower set of stairs which ran around the inner walls of the castle. They entered a corridor walking a little way down it before coming upon a door.

"No tricks now priest, I don't want to find a guard room on the other side of this door," said Edward. Brother Sancticus gave him a withering look.

"Open the door," ordered Edward.

The priest turned the heavy handle and the door creaked open, all was darkness inside. As they entered and lamp light was cast across the room, they saw they were in some sort of reception room, thick carpet underfoot, tasteful landscape paintings adorned the walls. Edward found a gas lamp and lit it.

"Which one is Darkmere's room?" asked Edward indicating the two door that led off the reception room.

"I really must protest at your behaviour," Brother Sancticus said loudly. "You can't just break in here demanding to see his Lordship like this."

"I think we already have," said Percy. "Now which door?"

A crash came from behind one of the doors. Edward and Percy leapt forward and opened the door, as they did so a shot rang out whistling passed their heads. They took cover against the wall and Edward risked a peek in. The room was empty but a slight movement caught his eye and he jumped into the room, just as the bookcase slid back into place.

"There's a secret passageway behind here," said Edward, looking around for the mechanism.

"How do we open the door priest?" Rob asked pressing his pistol into the monk's back.

"There's usually a leaver in the fireplace," said Percy, "or an ornament on the mantelpiece."

Edward looked at him.

"Well that's where they are in our house," said Percy.

They pulled and tugged at various ornaments and fixtures around the fireplace, the poker, its stand, the air-vent and a large ornate carriage clock. Edward grabbed a solid looking silver angel standing at one end of the mantelpiece and gave it a good tugging. It levered forward and the bookcase slid open.

"Ha," cried Percy triumphantly and grabbing up one of the lamps in the room he rushed into the black space revealed behind the bookcase.

"Don't let the priest go," Edward told Rob, "we may need him yet," then grabbing a second lamp he ran after Percy.

The passageway was dank and covered in cobwebs. Darkmere didn't usually use it as way of moving around his castle. The stone flagging beneath Edward's feet were treacherous with slime and several times he had to steady himself against the cold damp walls. The passageway led to a narrow set of steps and Edward began to climb. As he neared the top of the stairs he heard voices coming from above.

The stairs ended abruptly at an iron wall. A simple leaver set flush into the iron wall operated its mechanism and in a moment Edward was leaping from the passage into a circular stone room. The room's windows were narrow arrow slits carved in the stone, each covered with a long red velvet curtain hung from an iron rod. A spiral staircase led to a room above. Percy and Darkmere stood in the middle of the room, swords drawn. As Edward burst in they both looked and Darkmere took the opportunity of the distraction to lunge at Percy, who neatly side-stepped the move.

"And who is your little friend?" sneered Vilners circling round so he faced them both as he tugged down the edge of his black waist-coat which he wore over a white shirt. With his black boots and trousers he looked dressed ready to travel, missing only his overcoat.

"His identity is irrelevant Vilners, where is my sister?"

"Oh, you need not worry about Emily, she perfectly safe, and I may add, safe from you. You'll see her again, though when you do she'll be Lady Darkmere," he laughed.

"You fiend," cried Percy lunging at Vilners with his sword. Vilners parried and returned a riposte.

"It seems to me your going to have trouble marrying Emily if you can't make it to the wedding yourself," remarked Edward, causing Darkmere to scowl at him.

"Your point, whoever you may be, is well put Sir. I shall not tarry long with you two if I'm to be wed. My fiancé awaits," cried Vilners, flicking back his black hair with a toss of his head.

"I think you underestimate the advantages of our company," said Edward, "I can assure you we are really most worth while spending time with, you might even enjoy yourself."

"I doubt you have the wit or the wisdom to entertain me," scoffed Vilners.

"We will have to detain you non-the-less," responded Edward.

"You might wish to, but not tonight I think, my guards will be bursting through that door any moment now." And as if to illustrate his words the sound of voices and running feet came from beyond the door.

"Well I must bid you both adieu, wish me luck in my newly wedded life," he paused a moment for thought then said, "It's unfortunate that my fiancé’s brother wont be making it to the reception," and with that, he fired his sword directly into Percy's chest.

"Percy!" Edward cried, as the stout boy fell in a crumpled heap on the floor, Vilners leaping for the iron stairs.

As Edward bent over his fallen friends' body the cry of a woman came from the room above. "It's her, its Emily," croaked Percy, "Save her."

Without a moments hesitation Edward leapt after Vilners racing up the stairs behind him. A thrust of his sword into the heal of Vilners' boot caused the man to stop and turn, engaging Edward with the blade of his sword. They cut and parried at each other, Vilners with the advantage of height began to force his opponent back down the stairs, but as he did so was forced to descend once again back into the room.

Another cry came from above, quickly muffled as it was cut off. Vilners lost his concentration for a moment casting a glance up the stairs, Edward saw his opening and thrust, Vilners parried but Edwards blade cut through Vilners fine shirt and pierced his arm.

A look of sheer hatred crossed Vilners face, "Just who the hell are you little man?" he cried thrusting an ill aimed blow at Edward.

"I'm Mr. Black," Edward replied, easily knocking Vilners' blow out of the way.

"Not Edward Black?" asked Vilners an evil grin creeping across his face, "Also known as Edward York, Edward Infante, pretender to the throne? You know you will never accede, your uncle wont let it happen, you wont live long enough. In fact, I think I'll kill you for him, now myself," he levelled his sword at Edward as if readying for a second shot.

"You only have one shot in your sword, and you have used it already," said Edward.

Vilners looked a little upset," and what do you know about Guardian swords little boy? You had better back off, you have no idea of the power of the forces you are up against," he sneered.

"Well I have one myself for starters, so I know how many shots it has," replied Edward. Sensing a trick, he didn't raise his sword to the firing position but kept it en-guard.

"Give it up now boy, you are dead anyway, an unwanted nuisance from the forgotten passed," Vilners cried.

A loud banging and shouting came from the chamber door.

"I think that's my cue to depart, it has been more entertaining than I thought," said Vilners now quickly backing up the stairs as the door flew open and two soldiers burst in wearing the red uniform coats of the East India Company.

"Arrest this man," ordered Vilners, but the soldiers seemed to have something else on their minds, fearing more, that which was behind them, than their employer. They turned to face the doorway just burst through and as they did so something glinted in the darkness beyond them. The next moment stood shocked with a bizarre blade of gleaming silver thrust through their chests. The soldiers were lifted bodily off their feet and flung like rag dolls across the room as Ra Chet strode in. The blades slid neatly back into slots in his arms. Behind him came Carmine and Captain Legate.

"Percy," cried Carmine seeing her friend lying on the floor she rushed over to him.

Edward turned back to Vilners, but using the diversion, he was gone. Edward raced up the  stairs, Captain Legate on his heels and into a small room with a simple wooden bench running round it's edge. A single door leading out on to a parapet swung idly in the night breeze. Edward crossed the room in two bounds and on to the parapet which ran all the way around the tower.

In front of him the dark shape of an airship hung in the sky blocking out the light of the stars. It must have come upon the castle after they had arrived, approaching unseen beyond the high walls. Its gangway hung loosely from the gantry and a victorious Vilners stood clinging to the cabin doorway of the receding ship.

"I win Edward Infante," he shouted. The cry of a woman's voice from within the airship came on the wind and Vilners turned and said something as the ship drifted further and further away. Edward aimed his sword gun at the receding figure but Captain Legate placed his hand over Edwards and pushed the sword down.

"Don't do it son, if that's a hydrogen ship it might explode, you don't want Emily going down in flames?"

Angry and frustrated Edward turned his back on the airship, the faint strains of Vilners laugh carried tauntingly on the breeze.
