Chapter 19 – An unexpected ally
Edward and Carmine began to sort out the arraignments for their stay. "We need to allocate rooms for ourselves and I'll have supplies sent over from the Valiant," said Edward, "I guess we should close up the Laboratory for now, just to keep it safe. Are you fully wound Ra Chet?" he asked the mechanical man.

"I am as tight as I can be, thank you Edward Infante," he replied.

"And you must stop calling me Edward Infante, please just call me Edward." Edward insisted.

"Very well Edward." replied Ra Chet.

"We should contact Isambard and tell him where we are," said Edward.

"Isambard Van Klees?" asked Ra Chet, "Professor Van Klees?"

"The very same."

"I believe I can be of assistance Edward. We can use the bright-energy inter-locution device to send a signal which I'm sure Isambard will be able to receive."

"Bright-energy inter-locution device? what on earth is that?" asked Edward.

"It is in the Library," replied Ra Chet, leading them to the anti-chamber of the apartments Edward had so recently searched. In the room, Ra Chet walked over to a tall, dark wood, cabinet. He opened a small door in its front and turned a wheel mounted within the recess. The cabinet slid forward smoothly as if on small rails, as it did so, the top half of the cabinet swung open in two halves and a panel slipped out at waist level, revealing a host of complicated looking controls.

Ra Chet fiddled with the controls for a moment, then, clicking and whirring quietly to himself he followed a wire down the side of the cabinet.

"Is there a problem?" asked Edward.

"Just a minor one Edward, I think this wire has come loose." so saying Ra Chet reconnected the wire with a twist and the cabinet came to life. The instruments on the panel began to glow, the needles in the dials quivered and leapt up-right behind their little glass windows and a strange low hum emanated from the depths of the cabinet.

"Wow, amazing," said a wide eyed Rob.

"How does it work?" Edward asked, following his natural curiosity for mechanisms and their workings.

"It uses the power of trapped lightening energy which Lord Philip called bright-energy. Lord Philip and the Professor were able to create the bright-energy storage devices which are the jars in the laboratory and which provide energy to these rooms."

At that moment a loud crackling came from the bright-energy inter-locution device and an eerie crackling voice came from it saying, "Ahoy, ahoy?"

"Ahoy, Copper Swallow this is White Rose do you hear me over?" Ra Chet spoke into the talking cabinet.

"Ahoy, White Rose, Copper Swallow hearing loud and clear over," the cabinet replied.

"Ahoy, interesting party at location Iron Compass, repeat, Iron Compass, do you hear me over?"

"Ahoy, message received and understood, end transmission," the cabinet replied, then it fell silent.

"Was that the Professor’s voice coming from the talking device?" asked Edward.

"Yes, I was speaking directly to the Professor, in a coded language," replied Ra Chet, "He is Copper Swallow, your father was White Rose, and Apethorpe Manor is Iron Compass, this way the Guardians will not know who we are talking about or where we are."

"The Guardians could hear that?" asked Carmine in surprise.

"I'm afraid it is entirely possible my Lady," replied Ra Chet. "This is one of the forbidden technologies which the Guardians are most keen to keep to themselves. They have their own bright-energy inter-locution devices and detecting devices so they can listen in on, and locate, bright-energy activity. We must use them with great caution my Lady."

Suddenly, from the Manor house above them, a bell rang insistently.

"Someone has arrived," announced Ra Chet.

"Right, stay here Ra Chet, Rob and Cami will answer the door and see who it is. Remember Rob, you are playing the part of Cami's manservant. I'll keep out of the way for now." ordered Edward.

Each went to their tasks, Rob and Carmine rushing off up the stone stairway and into the manor.

"I will wait here Edward," the mechanical man said, "just tap on the floor and I will open the stairway for you."

Edward followed the other two up the stone stairs which closed silently behind him. He made his way casually along the corridor until he could peer through the slightly opened door and listen to what was happening in the hall.

The bell rang again, sounding much louder now he was in the manor. He saw Rob give his moustaches a final check before reaching out and opening the door.

"You rang." he heard Rob say, but he couldn't see who it was. Had the Guardians been able to find them so quickly? Was it even possible they could have traced such a quick transmission?

He couldn't hear what the visitor was saying but Rob reached out and took a small white piece of cardboard from the visitor and saying, "I will see if her Ladyship is in to visitors," he shut the door.

Rob and Carmine immediately began a hushed conversation. Edward stepped into the hall and called them over.

"What is going on? Who is it?" he asked.

"It is the young Duke of Bath, Lord Trafford, We were very close as children but I haven't seen him since I became an Imperial Agent," Carmine explained. "I'm sure he's harmless, and he seems very excited to see me."

"Can you vouch for him? can we trust him?" asked Edward.

"I believe we can."

Edward considered this a moment and decided it was a risk worth taking if this Lord Trafford was known to Carmine. "Very well, let him in and lets see what he has to say for himself," said Edward who quickly returned to his hiding place in the corridor.

Rob opened the front door again and admitted a young man, well built, if a little over weight, with a shock of chestnut brown hair and a clean shaven face. The Duke was wearing a heavy tweed three piece suit which was entirely too warm for the day. He stood a moment mopping at his perspiring brow with a monogrammed handkerchief he pulled from his top pocket.

When he finally spoke the Duke's voice was filled with the rich plummy accent of the British upper-classes. "Cami, Lady Apethorpe I should say, please accept my condolences on your loss..."

Carmine nodded to the Duke, "Thank you Percy, my father is greatly missed."

"But my, it is good to see again you though," continued Percy. "We had heard you were dead, lost in some desert somewhere, there have been all kind of rumours, the Infante himself was killed with you, and all sorts."

"Well as you can see Percy, I'm not dead, though I would appreciate it if you didn't put people right on that at the moment, I have a feeling being dead could be useful to me right now."

Percy looked confused but murmured his concession, "you make it all seem very exciting and mysterious," he added.

"How did you know I was here?" asked Carmine.

"I didn't. I saw the airship and though to myself, that looks like it is headed for the old Augustus place, so soon as I'd breakfasted and what-not I got the old Clarkson Mark V stoked up and came puffing over here fast as I could. Well I saw the ship in the garden and I thought to myself that can't be Cami can it? I mean you are an Imperial Agent, you have a clipper, so I thought maybe you were dead, like they've been saying, and someone had come to take away the things. Anyway you can't imagine my relief to find you alive and well, and I must confess it's not just because I'm pleased to see you, it's because I have troubles of my own."

"Troubles, what troubles?" asked Carmine.

"It's my sister, Emily."

"I remember her, little blue ribbons holding her golden hair in bunches."

"Yes, that's the one, actually she's all grown up now, quite the beauty they say, though I don't see it myself, but then, she is my sister. Anyway she's gone."

"Gone?"

"Yes, well, disappeared I guess. I mean it's not like her. She was supposed to be going to London with Mama and Papa for the Emperor's ball but when it came time to depart, she had already gone, disappeared that is. We haven't seen her since and Mama is completely at odds with herself over it. I really don't know what to do."

"It was my main though you see, when I saw the airship, I thought of you and how awfully clever and resourceful you used to be. So I thought to myself, Cami is an Imperial Agent now, maybe she knows something about my sister."

"Of course Mama is just in pieces and keeps having sobbing fits while Papa bangs on about how this sort of thing wouldn't have happened if Richard York was still alive. Apparently they were in some sort of club together. Well I couldn't stand it so I came over here to Ireland," Percy seemed to have finished his story.

"Well I don't know anything about Emily I'm afraid," said Carmine, "I wish I could help but I have problems of my own just now."

Percy looked crestfallen. "I understand Cami, of course, I should have thought."

From his place behind the door Edward heard Percy mention the club his father had been in and wondered if this was a reference the League. Here was the son of a League member asking for help, surely he could be trusted? Surely if they helped Percy, Percy would help them? So thinking he took the risk stepped out into the hall and strode over, hoping Carmine would play along with the new role he was inventing for himself.

"Lady Apethorpe," he nodded to Carmine, "Lord Trafford, I'm... Mr. Black, a shall we say... associate of Lady Apethorpe's. I couldn't help overhearing about your sister's troubles. I believe we may be able to help you."

"Really? Really?" asked Percy in astonishment, relief and gratitude written all over his face as he looked quickly from Edward to Carmine and back again. Carmine wore a slight quizzical look on her face, but said nothing.

"Why don't we all go to the study and you can tell us everything you know about your sister's disappearance." suggested Edward.

Carmine led them to a study just off the hallway where they all made themselves comfortable.

"Percy," said Edward, "if we help you, you understand we are putting ourselves at great risk? Can we trust you?"

"Of course," Percy looked to Carmine for support. "Cami and I go back a long way and I think she knows that if I give my word, I'll stick to it."

Carmine nodded her agreement.

"Very well then," said Edward. "Tell us everything you know about your sister's disappearance."

"Well I'm not sure I know anything really," said Percy. "She's, well, my little sister and she's all very nice and everything. She's seventeen years old and lives at Bastilion Hall near Bath with Mama and Papa. Anyway, the night before last she was at the Hall preparing for the Emperor's ball. She was going to go with Mama and Papa, and even be introduced to the Emperor himself."

"It was about eight O’clock and I was having the devil of a time with a particularly fancy set of cuff-links when I heard a great uproar around the house. Everyone was rushing up and down stairs, in and out of rooms, calling Emily's name. Milly, Emily's maid, was particularly distraught at having lost her mistress. Suffice it say we haven't found Emily since.  Then Lord Darkmere came over and thundered about the house, he's Emmie's new beau, Mama says he will be asking Papa for her hand any day now, but I don't think Papa likes him much."

"Lord Darkmere," said Carmine, "Funny you should mention him, I bumped in to him myself recently, at the Emperor's ball no less. Your sister's disappearance didn't keep him away."

"No, well he is very keen to get in with the Emperor," replied Percy.

"I think we need to go to Bath and question the other members of the household," said Edward. "There maybe someone there who knows something."

"Look Percy, you've given us your word, so I'm trusting you. We need to travel incognito and we don't want you giving the game away, can you keep our secret?"

"Oh yes, absolutely," replied Percy.

"Very well then. I suggest we all get a good nights' sleep, and tomorrow we will take the Valiant to Bath and pay a visit to Bastilion Hall." said Edward, to which they all agreed.

Early the following morning with a mist still coiled around the hedges and trees, a small group made its way across the dew laden grass to the tethered airship. A few minutes latter the five of them, including Percy and Ra Chet were crammed into the Valiant's small passenger cabin. The ship rose silently and gracefully into the skies, turned gently and headed east.

"I should introduce our other associates properly," Edward said to Percy once they were settled on the narrow seats, except Ra Chet who prefered to stand near the door.

"Lady Apethorpe of course you know already. Captain Badger, and our distinguished, disfigured friend, from the East, Professor Ra Chet, and I, are adventurers who are inclined from time to time to help Lady Apethorpe in her various assignments." Edward wasn't about to give all their secrets away, besides which, it was an opportunity to try out a story he had devised as cover for them. Ra Chet was the biggest challenge, as even in his hooded cloak, he looked noticably unusual.

"The Professor here suffered an horrendous accident which has left his face and body terribly disfigured, which is why he wears a mask and gloves at all times, to spare us the awful sight of his injuries," Edward explained away Ra Chet's unusual appearance.

Percy seemed satisfied with this explanation.

"I think together we stand a good chance of finding your sister. What we may lack in experience, we more than make up for in resourcefulness," continued Edward.

"I think it may be best if I present myself at Bastilion Hall as a Private Investigator who Percy has hired. This will allow us to go around questioning everyone." said Edward.

"What do you expect us to find out?" asked Carmine.

"We don't really know anything at the moment, so, anything anyone can tell us will help." replied Edward.

"I used to like reading the penny dreadfuls as a child," Carmine confessed. "As I recall from them the detectives always ask questions like, where were you at the time of the murder? Can you account for your whereabouts, and they are always spotting clues."

"Asking everyone about their movements at the time is a good idea," agreed Edward, "I don't know about clues, how do we know what a clue is?"

"You might say we haven't a clue," Rob chipped in.

"Ha ha, yes well that's exactly it," agreed Edward, "We will just have to figure it out as we go along."

They were interrupted as a crewman entered the cabin.

"Your Ladyship, we have received a message from Professor Van Klees for you, He instructs that we are to meet with the A.S Gallant at Swainswick just north of Bath. He says it's too dangerous for you to dock at Bath, the authorities are inspecting all incoming airships," he informed them.

"Thank you," Carmine replied, "When can expect to reach Swainswick?"

"We are due to land within the hour my Lady." The Crewman withdrew leaving the friends alone once again.

"I wonder what it is all about," mused Rob.

"They are all whipped up about the Pretender," replied Percy. "There are a lot of rumours flying arround, but as I understand it, after the Infante died there have been a series of Pretenders, it's even said ,one tried to get to the Queen herself, but the Emperor was too clever to allow that."

"I see," said Edward. "And what are they saying about this Pretender?"

"Well of course making such a claim is punishable by death, the Department of Internal Affairs has Agents everywhere at the moment," replied Percy. "I should think anyone trying that game at the moment had better be the Infante."

"Though the Infante himself may be at risk of being mistaken for a Pretender," remarked Edward.

"Why yes," said Percy, "I hadn't thought of it that way."

"And what do you think Percy?" asked Carmine.

"I don't really see how the Infante can have survived, I mean he's been gone over ten years, but if he is alive, well then, that would be great. My father, the Duke ,is always going on about how things were under Victor II, Richard York as he likes to call him." Percy lowered his voice, "I don't think he likes the current Emperor very much, he's always been suspicious of how Henry came to power and I get the feeling he once knew them well, but he's never actually said so."

Their ears began to pop as the Valiant lost height and the cabin became warm and stuffy.

"Looks like we are over Swainswick," said Rob looking through one of the small portholes. They appeared to be descending to a field near a small village.

"Any sign of the Gallant?" asked Carmine.

"No," replied Rob craning his neck to get a better view.

The crewman reappeared and informed them all it was time to assemble on the gantry. They filled out after him and found the ship floating twenty or so feet above the ground.

"I'm afraid it's down the rope-ladder," said the crewman pushing the coiled ladder off the edge of the gantry. It fell outwards and downwards unfurling as it went. As soon as it touched the ground Rob began his descend.

The ladder swayed terribly as he climbed down. At the bottom he weighed the ladder down with his own weight, holding it while the others followed. Once they were all safely on the ground Rob released the ladder and a moment later the Valiant rose up in to the sky.

Edward looked round the empty field. "Well I guess were walking to Bath," he said making ready to walk toward a nearby house. "I think the road is over there."

"What happened to the Gallant?" asked Carmine, "I don't understand."

"Who knows," replied Edward as he strode off.

The party approached the edge of the field and the gate. Percy noticed a figure standing in the road waving. "Is that someone waving at us?" he asked pointing to the gesticulating figure.

"You know I think that is," replied Edward. "In fact it looks like Chesterton."

On reaching the gate it became clear it was Chesterton waiting for them with a steam-car which already had a good head of steam going.

"Good morning Sir," Chesterton greeted Edward.

"Morning Chesterton. I must say your timing is excellent, how on earth did you find us here?"

"I came in on the Gallant not half an hour ago, we lifted the car in as well. Had the devil of a time getting it out of the field, it's a bit boggy by the gate. I take it we are headed for Bath."

"For  Bastilion Hall the seat of the Duke of Bath. This is Lord Percy Trafford, the next Duke of Bath." said Edward.

"Pleased to meet you Sir," Chesterton greeted Percy.

They climbed into the steam-car and were no sooner settled when Chesterton, sat on top, engaged the engine and they began to move down the dirt track which passed for the roadway in Swainswick. They came to the village high street which was nothing more than a few houses, an inn and a shop after which the road widened and its surface improved a little. Once they were on the Bath Road, the main route from Swindon and Oxford to Bath, it was only a few minutes before they entered Bath itself and were chugging past sweeping crescents, town houses, and grand circular gardens.
