Chapter 26 – Fortress of Shadow
The white rose train rattled on through the jungle, its occupants staring keenly out at passing foliage ready for the first sign of trouble. After sever miles of heavily wooded jungle the trees began to thin out and the train slowed down. The track began a long slow climb up the mountainous foothills towards Ashcantoor. The rays of the setting sun gave the mountains an alien orange hue and there, a stark black silhouette against the mountain side, the Fortress of Eternal Shadow itself.

The main part of the fortress was box shaped, its battlements like small square teeth along its upper parts, and the whole thing was flanked by two similar though smaller box like structures. Three stark rectangular towers completed its outline and only the onion shaped dome in the centre of the main fortress broke the otherwise regular, uniform, lines of its imposing structure. To Edward it looked more like a prison than a castle.

The train tracks now passed through cultivated land, on one side the forest had been logged, piles of stripped trunks lay waiting to be hauled, and on the other side a long strip of earth torn bare where a strip mine left a raw dark pit in the landscape. At the edge of the remaining jungle, beyond the piles of logs Edward thought he caught a glimpse of movement. Something large, moving awkwardly through the tree line, but it was impossible to make out any details of what it was he had seen, if anything.

The tracks fanned out branching into more lines, all leading to the marshalling yards. The train slowed down and several times came to a complete halt as Captain Legate or Chesterton jumped down and checked the points, but still no challenge came from Darkmere's men.

The train stopped a third time, and was just getting under-way again when the passengers were thrown violently forward as the breaks were suddenly applied. The wheels gave a tortured screech as they span backwards, fighting against the momentum of the train, until the carriages came, at last, to a juddering halt.

Picking himself up from the floor of the carriage Edward ran to the front and opened the connecting door, which led to the tender wagon. He jumped from the observation car doorway to the tender and climbed the short ladder onto the roof, from where he could see up ahead, and if necessary, shout to Captain Legate and Chesterton. Something was blocking their way, a large dark object with hard square edges standing about the same height as the engine itself.

"What is it?" called Edward.

"No idea, but it's blocking the way," came the reply.

Edward ran across the tender roof, jumped down into the driver's compartment and stuck his head out of the window.

"What happened? How did it get there?" he asked.

"It came out of nowhere," replied Captain Legate, "it seemed to be walking across the lines, we only just spotted it, and as it began crossing the line we are on, it stopped suddenly, and, well, there it is."

A low groan of metal on metal could be heard over the slow hiss of steam which came from the engine's valves. Edward looked out again, the obstruction looked like it was rocking back and forth, more metal screeching came from its direction, then it moved off on what looked like four massive legs. The metal beast continued on its way across the tracks and into the forest beyond. Even out of sight, it could still be heard, creaking and clanking its way through the trees.

"Our groaning devils do you think?" asked Captain Legate.

"Could be," agreed Edward. "Either way, we had better keep a sharp eye out, who knows what surprises are in store for us here."

In the glow of the boiler fire Edward watched as Chesterton eased off the brakes and vented pressure into the pistons and the train eased forward continuing on its journey. Just a short way further up the line the track split from the marshalling yard and headed for the factory, a low lying brick building with a saw tooth shed roof and tower stacks reaching into the sky. The train rolled into the factory yard and stopped alongside a loading platform.

"We seem to have come at the right time of day," said Edward, "everyone's off having their supper."

"That, or it is a trap," replied Legate.

"Hey, hey," Edward heard a shout from the platform and a brown faced, turbaned head, appeared at the driver's window.

"You can't unload now, you need to return to the marshalling yards for the night," the night guard said through the window. "You must go now, yes, yes."

"Now look here my good fellow," captain Legate said opening the driver's door and climbing out, causing the guard to turn and find the point of Captain Legate's blade at his throat.

"Just keep the noise down and no harm will come of you," Legate advised the man.

Jahshalad jumped down from the observation car and walked towards the front of the train a couple of his men in behind him.

"Get these doors open," he ordered and his men disappeared through a guards entrance and a moment later a loading bay door was rolled open, sliding out of the way on hidden rails.

"My men will set up a perimeter here in the factory to cover your escape, while I show you the entrance to the secret tunnels," said Jahshalad.

Jahshalad's men took up ready positions around the platform and packing crates as Jahshalad led the adventurers deep into the factory. At the end of the platform they entered the factory proper. Long lines of conveyor chains mounted on the ceiling ran the length of the sheds. From the chains hung wooden platforms or pieces of equipment. Some of the chain lines looped back up the same shed, while others disappeared through holes in the walls.

"Something not right," said Merryman, as they crept through the first shed.

"You are right there," replied Captain Legate, "it's far too quiet for a start."

"That's not what I meant dear chap. I was thinking that these chain lines, they should have produce on them, from the plantations, not metal components such as these," he picked an object off the nearest platform and turn it over in his hand, "Looks like part of a piston mechanism," he remarked.

"There wasn't much sign of agriculture on the way," said Edward, "looked like logging and mining."

"They are making something here, some kind of machine," concluded Merryman as they came to the end of the shed and Jahshalad, turning left, began to walk along the back wall of the factory leading them through shed after shed.

They moved in silence until, eventually, Jahshalad raised his hand. "It must be in either this shed or the next," he said.

"What are we looking for?" asked Rob.

"I don't know, anything that looks like a possible door or entrance," replied Edward.

They began hunting around, moving crates and boxes.

"It might be behind the back wall," suggested Rob.

"No," replied Jahshalid, "see how the lower foot or so of the wall is bare rock, not brick like the rest of the building, behind is only mountain."

Edward and Rob set to moving a stack of wooden crates away from the wall quickly stacking them off to the side in a crude pile. As they lifted the fifteenth or sixteenth crate onto their decidedly crooked pile it shifted an earlier crate which teetered then fell to the floor smashing open and spilling its contents of clay sticks across the floor.

"Be careful there," cried Merryman, picking up a clay stick, "see these letters? T.N.T. printed on the side, this stuff is dynamite."

"Well we have cleared the wall enough to see there is no entrance behind this stack of crates," said Edward. No one else had found anything like an entrance either so they moved on to the next room and continued their search.

Almost immediately Rob spotted a large iron plate set in the floor. It was bolted down so they searched around for tools to unbolt it or pry it loose.

Suddenly a loud roar  ripped apart the quiet of the sheds, the screaming of escaping steam and the groan of metal as a giant iron fist smashed through a wall throwing bricks in all directions. A second fist, then a third, came smashing through and a huge metal monstrosity came crashing into the shed, bricks showering from its back like water off a dog. Through the brick dust and the gloom Edward could see the machine's furnace glowing redly. The thing had a body but no head, at its front the iron teeth of its furnace grill glowed and grinned menacingly at the adventurers. It had four legs, two on either side, but these ended in fist shaped pincers instead of feet. It was large and unwieldy, its movements clumsy and dangerous.

Another screech of steam came from the sides of the frightening engine as it flexed its leg joints and came lumbering down the shed towards the adventurers crushing everything under foot as it moved. The top of its chassis scrapped the chain line fixtures from their roof joists tipping platforms and spilling their contents across the shed. The chains fell onto the machine, but this necklace of iron didn't stop it, it tore through the chains as if made of paper.

"This plate is not budging," shouted Captain Legate as the metal monstrosity was upon him, it's red hot belly glowering at him like an evil eye.

Edward took a few steps back and tripped over some boxes. He lay on the floor gathering his wits a moment, before levering himself into a sitting position. Some of the wooden boxes has split open spilling their contents around him, what at first appeared to be fist sized washers, but the ones which fell on their edges began to roll towards each other and as they came close, leapt together sticking one to the other. Rubbing his head, an idea began to form in Edward's mind.

He leapt up and grabbing a couple of the oversized washers he ran back to the shed they last passed through. He grabbed three sticks of dynamite and pushed them into the hole in the centre of the washers, jamming them in hard, then he ran back. The machine monster had crashed into the mountain wall end of the shed and was turning round in an awkward lumbering way. As it completed its turn, exposing its fiery belly, Edward ran and threw the washer mine at the beast's glowing furnace. The mine stuck to the grills with a resounding clang.

"Down, everyone down," shouted Edward, throwing himself behind a pile of rubble. He heard the machine take a step, then another, the hiss of its pistons and then, a deafening roar. His ears rang. Looking over the rubble he saw the machine, its front ripped off by the blast, bleeding red hot coals from the wound in its belly, a front limb ripped off below the joint. A rear leg moved, stepping forward, then it trembled, juddering violently, vibrating and venting steam as the mass of iron slowly toppled over, a final screech of steam as a leg thrashed wildly before falling still.

Picking himself up Edward shouted, "Everyone all right?" though he could barely hear himself over the ringing in his ears. Figures began emerging from their hiding places, covered in dust and oil it was difficult to tell who was who.

As the dust settled they saw where the iron floor plate had been, there was now a dark hole surrounded by bits of twisted metal.

"Looks like the exploding machine has ripped the plate open for us," said Rob.

Edward looked into the dark hole. He could see steps leading away into the black depths.

"We need something to light our way," said Edward. Just then the silent figure of Ra Chet walked passed him and down the steps. As Ra Chet descended, his eyes began to glow so brightly they threw two beams of light out in front of him.

"Looks like we don't need a lamp," remarked Merryman with a chuckle, as he followed Edward and Ra Chet down the steps, "Seems to me your friend here IS a lamp."

They entered a series of long dank tunnels carved from the very mountain rock itself. Some of the tunnels were natural, tall narrow slits in the rock carved  by water's passage a millennia ago, in other places man had cut through, these sections of tunnel had low rounded ceilings and the marks of the digging tools still visible in the cold hard rock. The tunnel sloped always upwards, sometimes they came to a larger cavern, and several times they passed places where the tunnel split in several directions.

"It is said that in the old days these tunnels were made by a Prince who wanted to see a maid from the local village," said Jahashalid as they walked through the dark corridors, "His father would not allow it, she was a peasant and he was a Prince. Legend has it that the Prince spent ten years secretly creating these tunnels until one day, finally, he was able to visit his young love in secret."

"So what happened?" asked Rob, "did they marry in the end?"

"Ah, if only it had been so, but legend tells, one day his father caught them and had the girl executed. The Prince never forgave his father and when the old man died and the Prince became the ruler of the fortress he had every sign of his father's existence eradicated from the region and as a final act to remove all evidence of his father, he killed himself. But it is only a story, who really knows?"

Eventually the tunnel ended at an iron bound, solid looking, wooden door. Through a small iron grate, set high in the door, Edward could see piles of crates stacked against the other side.

"Don't think we can open it, it is blocked on the other side," he said.

"No, look at the hinges dear boy," said Merryman, indicating heavy iron bonds which sat on large iron pegs, "this door opens towards us."

Captain Legate grabbed the iron ring that served as a door handle and pulled at it, after a moments unsuccessful heaving and tugging he said, "it must be barred from the other side."

"Not a problem old chap," said Merryman, "if we can cut through these hinge pins we can get it open."

"Except we have nothing to cut with," remarked Carmine.

"Ah, but we do," replied Merryman, and rummaging through the many pockets he had in his coat he produced a small metal file. "It will however," he said, "take some time to do I'm afraid," and with that set to filing through the thick iron pegs.

For the next hour they took turns working the impossibly small tool against the cold hard iron, but slowly, bit by bit, a thin gap was ground through, until, eventually, the pegs were almost completely worn.

Captain Legate passed his cape around the bars of the small grill making a good enough rope for him, Rob and Edward to pull on. The Pegs bent a little, then held. They tugged harder, jerking the cloak and with a mighty crack the door came off its hinges. More pulling and the door ground open a foot or so, the bar on its inner face now serving as a crude hinge.

"Right, now we need to move these boxes out of our way," declared Edward, "If we form a chain gang it should go quickly enough."

A few minutes of heaving wooden crates and they had remove enough to pass into the room beyond.

Whatever purpose it had had in the past, the room was now a store room, stacked floor to ceiling with crates. The exit, another solid wooden door.

Edward sat on a crate, "not another hour of sawing," he said despondently.

"Maybe there's something in these crates we can use?" suggested Rob.

"It is a pity you did not bring any more of that dynamite you used so successfully against the metal beast," said the Captain.

"Not to worry," said Merryman cheerfully, "this door is locked, not bolted, Mr. Murgatroyd, if you would be so very good."

"Mr. Merryman," replied Murgatroyd with a curt nod of his head. He took a leather case from his inside jacket pocket and opened it with air of a magician holding a holy relic and reverently took two slivers of grey metal from the case. He smoothed his moustaches, cracked his knuckles and approached the door. Captain Legate helpfully slid a crate over for Murgatroyd to stand on the better to help him to reach the lock. Murgatroyd stepped up, inserted the lock-picks and after a moments fiddling produced a dull clunk indicating the job was done, he pushed the door and it swung gently open.

"This is the main corridor for this level," explained Jahshalid. "The floor below us are the dungeons, perhaps Lady Emily is there?"

"Unlikely," said Edward, "Darkmere intends marrying her, and I don't suppose he keeps his fiancé in a dungeon. I would think he holds her somewhere more luxurious, more in keeping with the wife of the local landowner."

"In that case, it is most likely he has her in one of the towers," replied Jahshalid. I shall lead you there, then I must return to my men. This floor and the next are storage rooms, and the floor above is the servants quarters, the Fortress of Eternal Shadow has many floors."

"It's still far to quiet for my liking," said Captain Legate, "it is making me feel uneasy."

"You would feel better if we had to fight our way?" asked Jahshalid. The Captain shrugged, "probably."

At the end of the corridor stone steps led up to the floor above, and down to the dungeons below.

"We must be very careful here," Jahshalid warned, "These stairways are in constant use, we could be discovered at any moment. Let us move with great haste and little sound."
