Chapter 17 – A strange servant
The thing in the river grew before their eyes, water cascading down its shiny black sides, when it let out a great squeal of metal on metal followed by an ominous clang and a voice called out through the mist.

"Ahoy there."

"It's Prince Constantine and the Swzaskolians," Rob shouted back.

"Right you are sir," the voice replied and this was immediately followed by more metallic clanking and grinding.

"This way," Rob said, beckoning Carmine and Edward through the mist. He led them up a short metal gangway and through a low curved hatch which gave onto a grilled walkway. Behind them a sailor closed the hatch and span the wheel to secure the door. They descended into the bowels of the machine on stairs so steep they were almost a ladder.

A man wearing a peaked cap and big black beard greeted them at the bottom of the metal stairway. His blue jacked bore gold bands round the cuffs which marked him as the captain of the vessel.

"Your Highness, Your Ladyship, Mr. Badger, welcome aboard the submersible vessel the Moray. I am Captain Ignatius Barracuda," said the Captain in a deep baritone. "You'll have to excuse the cramped conditions, I'm afraid this is a rather cosy ship, but I'm sure my crew will make you comfortable during your trip. If you'll follow me I'll show you to your quarters."

Captain Barracuda led them along a narrow corridor which ran the entire length of the Moray and, coming to a hatchway, showed them into a small cabin. A low throb took the ship and the sound of gushing water indicated they were submerging beneath the waters of the Thames.

"It's a good job Isambard anticipated the need for a swift escape route," said Rob, "and had Captain Barracuda and the Moray stand ready at the docks..."

He was interrupted as a sailor brought in a tray with a large jug of hot chocolate and a small bottle of rum on it, both of which he placed on the table.

"Glad to be of service to you," the Captain said. "Now we are about to navigate the Thames, so you'll excuse me, I'm needed on the bridge."

"Thank you Captain," said Edward.

"Tell us everything about your meeting with the Queen," said Carmine, eager to hear how it had gone. They each took a mug of steaming chocolate to which Rob added a large drop of the rum.

"She is beautiful," said Edward looking as Carmine, "and sad. It was strange. I'm not sure how I feel about it yet. I think she recognised me, but I'm not really sure," he said thoughtfully.

Further discussion of the matter was interrupted as a sailor poked his head around the hatchway.

"Your Highness, we are getting a signal for you from Professor Van Klees, in the ABAY room," he told Edward.

Edward followed the swarthy submariner down the narrow metal passageway to the cramped ABAY cabin where there was barely enough room for Edward and the operator in such a confined space.

"This message has just arrived," said the operator, handing Edward a familiar strip of paper, an ABAY printout. It read, "Valiant now off English South Coast. Stop. Awaiting orders."

"We can send a message back?" asked Edward, the operator nodded his reply.

Edward drafted a brief note about the poem which he shared with Carmine, asking Isambard what he thought about it. The operator relayed the messaged into the ABAY which whirred and clicked for a few moments before falling still again. Minutes past, then the machine burst into action once again and as the little leavers clicked and clacked a strip of printed paper began snaking out of the slot, and was neatly sliced off as soon as the device finished its work. Picking the printout from the brass collection tray the operator handed it to Edward.

"Advise proceed to Apethorpe Manor. Stop. Will analyse poem. Stop. Valiant at your disposal. Stop." As Edward read this the ABAY sprang into action once more and a second strip of paper slipped out of the slot and fell into the tray.

"Coordinates for our rendezvous with the Valiant Sir," the operator told Edward as he entered them into the Moray's navigational system.

Edward returned to the cabin with the message. "So what do you think?" he asked Carmine and Rob.

"I think he's right," said Carmine. "My father seems to have left us message in the poem and whatever it means, we are most likely to find a clue at home."

"At Apethorpe Manor?" asked Edward.

"Yes, Apethorpe, my ancestral home. Indeed with my father death, it now belongs to me.  I suppose I am the Lady of the Manor," she replied a little sadly.

"We are all invited to your place then?" asked Rob cheerfully, hoping to lift the mood a little.

"Yes, you are both welcome at my ancestral home in Southern Ireland," Carmine assured them. "Indeed I cordially invite you both to join me there. It will be good to see the old place again," she added wistfully.

Several hours latter, under cover of the last hour of darkness before dawn, the Moray's conning tower broke the cold choppy waters of the English channel and the submersible rose to the surface. A light was made to guide the Valiant and a little latter, it responded with a light of its own, shortly followed by a cable length falling to the Moray's deck. At the end of the cable was a simple hook. Edward, Carmine and Rob were already wearing winching harnesses in preparation for their transfer to the Valiant.

Edward went first. As the hook sung over the Moray, Captain Barracuda himself deftly caught the cable and in a single swift motion hooked Edward's harness and he was lifted clear of the conning tower and winched upward. At the top of the winching, as he drew level with the Valiant's rail, the crew of the Valiant swung the winch arm in towards the ship and unhooked Edward. The cable was released. Edward watched as the manoeuvre was repeated twice again.

To Rob's misfortune as he was lifted from the Moray a swell in the waves coincided with a drop in air pressure above and he was unceremoniously dunked, briefly, into the cold seas, so he arrived on the Valiant dripping wet, though otherwise unharmed. Both Edward and Carmine were unable to prevent themselves seeing the funny side of this, and Rob, as was his nature, took it all in good humour.

As the flight to Ireland would take then several hours there was plenty of time for him to dry off and get changed, and all three took the opportunity to get some rest. So it was around mid-day when Edward was roused from his nap by a crewman and informed that the Valiant would shortly be coming over Apethorpe Manor.

The Valiant docked to a mooring tower set in the Manor's splendid grounds and while Edward and the others approached the manor on foot, the crew of the Valiant took the opportunity to effect minor repairs and necessary maintenances of the airship.

Edward and Rob followed Carmine across long lawns of lush green grass which ran to the manor itself. An impressive three story building of pale brown stone. Four plain columns flanked the front of the building, standing in pairs either side of the main entrance. They climbed the wide stone steps which led to front doors made from rich local wood.

To the right of the door, hanging down from a shallow portico ceiling, was an iron rod with a looped handle. Carmine grasped the rod and pulled down on it several times. Somewhere behind the doors they heard a distant bell ring in response to Carmine's actions.

They waited in the warm afternoon sun as birds chirped from the nearby hedges and a gentle breeze played with the heads of the flowers in the well tended flower beds.

"Someone must be here," said Carmine and rang the bell again. "My father's old staff will have been retained by the estate manager until given new instructions and I've not instructed the family lawyer since my father's death."

"Who would be on the staff?" asked Edward.

"I don't know, it's been a few years since I was here last. I know he didn't have many people working here, but he must have kept a caretaker or something, how else are the gardens tended?" said Carmine.

Rob had wondered away from the doorsteps and climbing into a nearby flower bed began  peering through the dark windows, cupping his hands around his eyes to get a better look. "It looks deserted, everything is covered in sheets and dust in this room," he informed the others.

"Don't you have a key to your own home?" asked Edward.

"I've never needed one," replied Carmine, "till now," she added. "I should have gone to the manager's office in Limerick to get one, which is where I guess we will have to go now."

They were about to return to the airship when Rob suddenly called out, "Hold up a minute, I think I see some movement." Again they waited in the quiet country air and presently there came an indistinct noise from behind the door, followed by the more recognisable sound of a key being turned in a well oiled lock. The door creaked open to reveal a darkened hall.

After the bright sunlight outside the darkness inside blinded them all as their eyes adjusted to the poor light within. Edward looked around for the person who had opened the door. As his eyes grew accustomed to the gloom he was able to make out a figure standing almost behind the door.

"Hey, you fellow, who are you?" he called to the figure who's response was to silently close the door behind them.

"Lets get some curtains drawn back in here shall we?" said Carmine in a cheery business like tone and taking here own advice leapt up the main staircase and found the rope which opened the curtains. Bright sunlight flooded into the hall and dust motes danced in the sun beams.

Turning to look at the figure by the door Edward saw a person of average height wearing a long brown robe, their face hidden in the shadows of a large hood.

"Who are you?" asked Edward.

The figure was silent and Rob was about to repeat the question when it made a strange noise, a low grinding growl which turned in to the words, "Ra Chet."

"Pardon?" said Edward.

"Ra Chet, Sir," said the figure in a dry rasping voice.

"Ra Chet?" cried Carmine, coming down the stairs again. "I don't recall anyone called Ra Chet in my father's employ. How long have you been in his service."

Again a long pause before Ra Chet replied, "I have served Lord Apethorpe for five years two months eight days and twenty three minutes Ma'am."

"He's an incredibly precise fellow," observed Rob.

All this time Edward had been trying to get a look at Ra Chet's face which remained resolutely hidden beneath his hood, but what Edward was able to make out of the shadowed visage looked horribly scared. A thin, possibly toothless mouth above a pockmarked chin with a vivid scar running up the side.

"And what exactly do you do for my father?" Carmine asked.

"I serve him," Ra Chet answered simply.

"In what capacity do you serve him?" she continued to press the man.

"In whatever way he commands, if it lies with in my capabilities," replied the strange man.

"I see," remarked Carmine giving him a quizzical look but choosing to pursue the matter no further for the moment.

"We should begin our investigation," said Edward. "Perhaps your father's study is a good place to begin?"

"This way," said Carmine leading them through a doorway which opened into a main corridor. They left the strange servant standing in the hall.

At the far end of the corridor Carmine opened a door and they all entered a sizeable room. She strode across the rich carpet and around the dark shadows of the furniture to draw back the curtains. As the afternoon light flooded in Edward saw they were in an octagonal room, panelled in dark wood, bookshelves lined the walls with tall windows set between. A large fireplace dominated the wall opposite the door, a dark stone mantelpiece with some ornaments on it, and hung above, a modest looking glass in a highly ornate frame. In the centre sat a huge oak table while at the side, stood a large globe of the world held in a carved wooden stand.

"What do you think we are looking for?" asked Rob looking at all the books.

"I don't know," confessed Edward.

"I'll search his desk to see if there is anything," said Carmine. She went and sat in the large leather chair which stood behind the desk. Edward and Rob began wondering around the room like two confused visitors in a museum of curiosities. Edward really had no idea what he was looking for, some clue, some hint, Lord Philip had been most mysterious.

The regular placement of the bookshelves and the windows left little opportunity in the way of sizeable hiding places. The room, built on the end of the east wing and joined the main building only at one wall, left no place for a secret room or passageway behind the shelves. Starting methodically at the shelf to the right of the door Edward inspected their contents. There where many books on all manner of subjects. The seventh and ninth shelves on each wall were, however, given over to collections of objects, which to Edward, looked on the whole to be ornamental.

An African mask stared down with empty almond eyes, an ornamental dagger glinted on a Chinese lacquer stand, various boxes both carved and plane, wooden, metal and even stone littered the shelves. On another shelf sat what looked like a small human skull while either side of this gruesome exhibit stood strange stones, one with some ancient curling spiral insect like being long turned to stone, another with a cluster of quartz like crystals coming from it, reminding Edward of the Palace he has so recently visited.

Each shelf was ornately carved with many symbols along its edge and thin wooden pillars, which formed the frontispiece of each side, were carved with a twisting vine motif which climbed to the ceiling and terminated in a cluster of berries and leaves. Having completed a first circuit of the room Edward studied the ceiling and the floor. An ornate chandelier hung from the centre of a slightly domed octagon. The floor, where it was not covered by an ornate oriental carpet, was bare grey stone laid in sizeable blocks, each a trapezoid, creating an effect whereby, the stones ran round and round in ever decreasing circles to a single octagonal stone in the centre.

"Any thing in his desk?" asked Edward, crossing to where Carmine sat examining a large pile of letters and papers.

"Nothing so far, bills and general household papers which I suppose I should attend to sometime, but nothing of interest to us, not even a diary or personal note book. As she said this an envelope slipped from the bunch of papers in her hand.

"What's that?" asked Edward picking the envelope up. "It's got your name on it Carmine," he gave it to her.

Slitting it open with a paper knife she sat back and took a moment to read with a dark look of concern written across her face.

"It's from my father, he urges me to seek you out and bring you here. He says it's very important I do this."

She began reading the letter aloud, "My Dearest Cami, I fear my time now is growing short, the Guardians grow closer and closer to finding me with each day that passes, and I must leave the Manor today on a matter of great urgency. It has become my belief in recent weeks that the Guardians may find me before I complete my mission, and therefore, with great reluctance, it falls to you to finish this unpleasant business which I find myself involved in. I do not have time here to explain it all to you, but I trust you to do the right thing."

"I ask you to seek out a young man, who I dare not name here in this letter. I ask you to think back to when you were ten years old and you and I took a trip around England in the big airship, you remember, the one with the red room which you liked so much. That was the trip where you fell on the steps at York Minster and cut you knee and a nice lady bandaged it with a blue ribbon from her hair."

"I hope you remember this trip, for I suspect the future of the Empire may now rest on your shoulders, and on your memories. During the trip we visited several mills and at one, which I dare not mention, I introduced you to a young boy about your age. Do you remember him, I hope so, do your remember where? I made your read the name of the mill from the iron work sign over the gate. Do you remember the boy? I made you memorise his name, and we made a song about it."

"It is with great regret that I must commit even this to paper as it puts you at great risk. Please believe me my Darling daughter that I do this only because I have no other option open to me. When you have found and read this letter destroy it. Tell no one. Find the boy and bring him here, he is our only hope."

"I love you dearly and always will, your ever loving Father Lord Philip Hanson-Augustus Baronet of Apethorpe."

She folded the letter up and slipped it back into the envelope before placing in her pocket.

"I do remember the trip," Carmine said wistfully. "I don't know why I didn't see it before, I knew there was something about the name Edward Blacksteel that seemed familiar when the department dispatched me to Blacksteel Orphanage, but it wasn't till now I remembered."

"I remember you," said Edward. "I remember Lord Philip coming to the orphanage one year with a raven haired girl, about my age. He was very keen to introduce me to you, for me to meet his daughter. Of course until now I didn't realise, I never made the connection."

They looked at each other for a moment a shared memory and a shared sadness.

"Well you have succeeded in fulfilling your father's wish," Edward broke the silence between them resting a sympathetic hand on her shoulder. "Does he say anything else? Why you should bring me here? What we are supposed to find?"

"No, nothing, just that I should bring you here, no clues, nothing else." replied Carmine.

"I guess we must keep looking then," said Edward scratching his head. He returned to the first bookshelf determined to search it even more thoroughly. Crouching down he began pulling books from the lower shelves, inspecting their titles, shaking them and looking behind. After twenty or so books all he had for his troubles were dusty sleeves and a dusty throat. He reached up and grasped a shelf to help pull himself back upright and he stood for a moment leaning on the shelf. As he did so he noticed the carved symbols again. No two were the same, a boar's head, a tree, a snake, a sword, a bell, a star, twelve in all. He looked at the next shelf, the symbols were the same twelve, though in a different order.

"Hey Carmine," he called out. "Do you think this means anything?" he showed her the symbols on the shelves.

"I don't know, I suppose they might," she replied looking at them.

Edward fingered the boar's head thoughtfully and in doing so felt it move. In astonishment he pressed it and the symbol receded into to the shelf a little way. When he released it it slid back to its usual position.

"That's interesting," said Edward. "You know the last two stanzas in each part of our poem ends with  a symbol, a rose, a heart, a star and a sword," he began looking along all the shelves.

"Yes, look, there is one of each on each bookcase, four in all."

"And the last line of each stanza also has a point of the compass, I bet each shelf is at a point of the compass," Carmine said. "Now as I recall the manor is built north facing..."

As she was musing this Edward remembered the watch Van Klees had given him, the one with the compass in it. Pulling the watch from his pocket he flipped it over and opened the back cover. The small needle, stamped with an arrow at one end, held steady.

"This is the northern shelf," he said.

"So the rose then," said Carmine, who finding the symbol depressed it. When she lifted her finger, the symbol slipped back into place as if it had never moved.

"Nothing happened," said Rob.

"No," agreed Carmine.

"It certainly is a puzzle," added Edward throwing himself into the leather chair, but a moment later he leapt up again, "perhaps we need to press all the symbols at the same time."

"But there are only three of us," Rob pointed out, "and four buttons."

"Perhaps your father's strange servant will help?" said Edward to Carmine, "I'll go and ask him."

In the entrance hall Ra Chet stood exactly where they had left him almost an hour earlier. Edward approached the silent, scared, figure who gave no sign of recognising Edwards' presence.

"Ahem, Ra Chet?" Edward said, as he drew close to the man, who after a moment croaked what Edward thought might have been the word Sir. Taking this as at least a sign he was being heard Edward continued, "Would you come with me to Lord Philip's study, we are in need of your assistance."

"Assistance? Certainly Sir," Ra Chet growled and again after a momentary pause began to follow Edward. As they walked towards the study Edward couldn't help but notice that the fellow had a peculiarity of gait, an unusual stiffness which gave the impression that he somehow managed to limp with both legs.

Back in Lord Philip's study Carmine and Rob had identified the symbols on each of the  shelves.

"What do we do now do you think?" asked Carmine.

"I guess we each take a shelf and press our buttons all at the same time," suggested Edward.

He gave Ra Chet the star on the eastern shelf while taking the sword on the western shelf for himself. The other two took up their respective places north and south and they all pressed together.
