Chapter 24 – House of Wonders
"How is Percy?" Edward asked Carmine, while the group stood on the loading platform and along with several tons of cotton bales, were lowered to the ground.

"He's still very weak, but he will live," she replied.

The loading platform came to rest on the hard ground with a dull whumf, throwing up a cloud of dust as it did so, its riser chains falling slack. A gang of Porters with long wooden barrows, which they drew by hand, rushed across the dusty plain of towers towards them. Captain Legate shouted instructions at the leading man, who Edward took to be the gang-master, and a few minutes later, a little line of rickshaws came bouncing over the hard packed dirt towards the airship. They each mounted two to a rickshaw, except Ra Chet who, being too heavy to ride in a rickshaw, had a whole porter's barrow to himself.

Edward couldn't help passing a thought for the luckless porter who had the job of hauling Ra Chet, but when he looked at the massive man assigned to Ra Chet's transport, it appeared he relished the challenge. Certainly at no point during their ride through the crowded streets did Ra Chet's barrow fall behind.

As they drew close to the edge of the airfield an official in a stiff blue jacket that looked too hot and too tight for him signalled the rickshaws to halt.

"Your papers please," he asked holding out his hand.

Edward saw Captain Legate and Rob, who were riding together, exchange glances, but Edward stood up in his rickshaw and beckoned the official over with the papers the Countess had so recently made for him.

"What's all this about?" asked Edward as he handed the documents over.

"It's Imperial business," the official replied as he inspected the paperwork. "They've been very busy these last few days, I think they are looking for someone, but they tell us nothing," saying this he looked over at a small hut standing in the dust, next to which was parked a shiny steam car. A man in a long brown leather coat and fedora hat leant against the hut, his eyes hidden behind a pair of smoked glass spectacles.

"Well, your papers all seem in order, enjoy your stay in Mangalore and may it be profitable," the official handed the papers back to Edward and waived them on.

As they passed the hut Edward got the distinct feeling the mysterious agent was giving them a through inspection from behind his dark glasses. The feeling of being watched was one he couldn't throw as they joined the main throng of towns folk.

The streets of Mangalore were filled with bustling, jostling, people, dressed in all manner of colourful clothing. Dogs ran wild, while raggedy children followed the rickshaws calling and holding out their hands, palm up, at the passengers. The rich smells of spices, oils and exotic fruits, unfamiliar to Edward, filled his senses, as he was swept through the glorious parade of humanity, the raucous noise of street vendors, haggling, chit-chat and the rattle of the rickshaws making conversation almost impossible.

After a half hour ride through the thronging streets the group dismounted at the grand entrance to Mangalore Railway station, reputed to be one the largest and most magnificent on the entire sub-continent. Great iron columns held a roof of glassed arches over the stone floored station. The platforms stretched away endlessly under the smoky arches providing access to a variety of trains which continually arrived and departed from them, keeping the soot stained glass roofed arches constantly filled with clouds of smoke from their busy engines.

They mounted the long deep steps which stood at the front of the station's grandiose facarde and entered the cool shade of the station itself. The concourse was bustling with travellers, luggage and goods piled high on barrows, vendors selling food and drink, the smell of which wafted over the adventurers as they walked passed, tight collared station officials hurried this way and that, muscular engineers with large iron tools, shirts tied round their waists, tapped wheels and tightened bolts. Edward spotted more of the men in long brown coats and smoked glass spectacles, leant nonchalantly against a pillar here, or a ticket booth there, quietly watching the crowd.

They passed small engines, their boilers brightly painted, pulling flat bed trucks and dilapidated carriages, large dark sleek engines with wheels as high as man, long trains of goods vans and sturdy engines with passenger carriages hitched to them. At platform twenty three they found their train.

The engine was a modest size but had a sleek refined look, its boiler hidden under a swept back hood for improved aerodynamics. Efficient bursts of steam hissed from the pistons and between the gleaming wheels. Six elegant carriages stood behind the engine, doors open ready to receive their guests. The party climbed aboard the luxurious cars, which together, made a travelling home from home, complete with accommodation births, kitchen, lounge, and even a small workshop area. Edward found his apartment, almost an entire carriage, had a reception room, a four poster bed, and a bathroom with marble fittings.

The train made no delay in starting and moments after boarding began to draw gracefully from the station. Plumes of white smoke rose from a discreet hole at the front of the engine casing, pistons hissed and pumped and wheels turned smoothly. The platform slowly slid passed as Edward look back to see if anyone was interested in their departure, but it seemed they had avoided attracting attention.

Bright sunlight fell across the train as it left the cover of the station and crossed the field of tracks which ran through the marshalling yards, through the town and into the open countryside beyond. Soon the brightly painted dwellings of Mangalore and the heaving population they contained, fell behind, giving way at first, to open fields of the banana, tobacco, tea, cotton and opium plantations, then after an hour or so of the regular lines of agricultural crops, the landscape changed, the terrain became jagged and wild as the train entered jungle. Now night and day flickered through the carriages as they flashed under thick dark jungle canopy and out again into brightly lit clearings before plunging back into leafy tree lined tunnels.

Edward joined the others in the observation car to better view the passing scenery, it was the most exotic and exciting landscape he had ever seen. A samovar in the corner of the car happily bubbled away and Chesterton was dispensing small hot sweet cups of strong tea which they drank from glass cups in elegant silver holders, while sitting at single leg round tables they lounged on dark velvet upholstered chairs, carved so each depicted a crouching animal. Edward sat on what he though was a leopard or perhaps a jaguar, resting his tea on its head which served as the left arm of the chair.

"Looks like the Professor came through for us again," said Captain Legate taking a seat next to Edward. "I think this is part of your father's old India Express train, see the flower motif?" he pointed out the white roses discreetly moulded above the doors of each carriage.

Edward nodded, "Do we know how long it will take to get to wherever we are going?" he asked.

"We know Darkmere's train passed through here about twelve hours ago headed East. I've considered the list we found in Darkmere's study and it look very likely he is headed for Ashcantoor at Darabat, the Fortress of Eternal Shadow, so named because it is always in the shadow of the mountains there. It is very much Darkmere's territory, he has plantations and is the Regional Governor by Imperial appointment. There is a sizeable contingent of East India Company soldiers to protect his farms and because of continued trouble from a local warlord he has Imperial forces billeted at the fortress. The fortress is nigh on impregnable, we will have to us guile, not force, if we are to succeed in rescuing Lady Emily."

"Do you have a plan?" asked Edward.

Captain Legate grinned back at him, "I was rather hoping you had one lad," he replied.

"We'll think of something I'm sure," said Carmine, who had been listening to Legate with great interest, "We've still a way to travel yet."

They each fell to considering the apparently insurmountable problem of getting into the fortress. Edward entered an almost hypnotic revere induced by the flickering jungle light and the rhythmic chic-a-ta-chic of the train's wheels as it raced on towards the Fortress of Eternal Shadow. His mind was a jostle of sounds and smells and the sights of the last few hours and after a while he found himself dozing off into dreams of jungle beasts and dark eyed pursuers.

He was jolted into wakefulness by a change in the trains' rhythm, they were slowing down.

"What's going on?" he asked the carriage at large.

"We are coming to the border of Jashwan province, Darkmere's territory, and we need to take on fuel and water for the engine," Carmine said, without turning her attention from the window.

It was mid-afternoon and the intense midday heat was beginning to fade, though it was still sweltering in the open, while damp and humid in the shade. As the engine slowed the temperature in the carriages  rose and everyone became hot and damp. Edward found himself tugging at his shirt to unstick it from his back, Carmine found a Chinese fan from somewhere and  gently fanned warm air over herself. Rob slumped listlessly in his chair but both Legate and Chesterton seemed little affected by the heat though both looked somewhat more red in the face than usual.

"Now your really feeing India," said Captain Legate, "more tea for everyone I think Chesterton, and perhaps a little walk while our engine takes on water.

Chesterton barely had time to pass around the tea before the train eased itself into the small station at Jandaha. They all climbed down from the train onto the platform, which was nothing more than duck-boards laid along the front of a modest brick building which was Jandaha station itself.

Captain Legate lead them through the brick building and out onto the dirt road beyond, which led to the modest town which the station served. A soft breeze and the shade of the banana leaves helped clear everyone's head of carriage fug and in a few minutes they reached the outskirts of Jandaha itself. The main road ran passed between low brick and mud buildings, brightly painted and each with a small plot of land at the side or to the rear.

A large white banner had been strung across the street between two buildings. It hung lazily in the warm air, printed on it, in large clear lettering were the words "The Amazing Harry Topp's Travelling Fair" below which, in smaller lettering, was written, "Not to be missed, once seen never forgotten, only in town for a few days". As they read, brief strains of music from an enthusiastically cranked pipe organ came drifting down the road.

"Shall we see it?" asked Carmine.

"We might as well, now we are here," said Edward.

"It will be a while before the train is ready to depart," confirmed Captain Legate, so the small band of adventurers continued up the road to Harry Topp's Fair, which occupied a field on the edge of town.

The field had been transformed with colourful tents and jauntily painted caravans. A man walked by on stilts, wearing a tall top hat, narrow chequered trousers and jacket tails which were so long they trailed along the ground. A massive fat woman with a beard sat on the wooden steps of a red and green caravan while she stitched some voluminous garment. A girl in a silver bathing costume and spangled tights with two great white feathers in a silver hair band led a pair of ponies, each with their own headband of colourful feathers.

A juggler and several clowns came tumbling by, leaping and cavorting as they went and the smell of sweet sticky fried food wafted over. Then suddenly, from amongst the colourful jumble of tents, caravans and fair folk Edward saw something which made him stop.

Set back a little from the main thoroughfare was a modest sized, dilapidated looking, dirty white tent which had seen better days. There was little activity near it, but it drew Edward's attention anyway. A memory flickered through his mind and reaching into his pocket he fingered a piece of card he had been given some time ago. He pulled the card from his pocket, the corners now crumpled but the printed legend still bright and clear. A banner was stretched in front of the dirty white tent, dusty and worn in places. its wording hand painted in flourished red lettering read "Merryman's House of Wonders". Edward looked at the card in his hand it said "Merryman's House of Wonders, Admits one Adult. No refund".

"I have to visit that tent," Edward told the others.

"Why?" asked Carmine.

Edward showed her the ticket, "the Countess of Wetherby gave it to me, it must mean something." he said.

"Well it only admits one," Carmine said, "I suppose we will have to wait for you here."

With a nod Edward left his friends and walked towards the tent. A dilapidated booth protected the entrance to the tent and at first it appeared completely empty, Edward wondered if he should just go straight in when a voice said, "And where do you think your going, it's thruppence entry you know."

Edward looked around for the source of the voice. "I'm in the booth," the voice said wearily and a scraping sound and a banging came from the booth as a dwarf in a tartan waist coat clambered on to a stool and peered out at Edward.

"Sorry, I didn't see you there," said Edward. The dwarf grunted and held out his hand. Edward showed him the ticket. The dwarf took it without remark, looked at it back and front then reaching down below the window pulled out a paper punch and neatly clipped the ticket before handing it back to him.

"In you go then," said the dwarf and leaping off his stool promptly disappeared from Edward's view, though he could still hear him fussing about inside the booth.

Edward pushed open the dusty tent flaps and stepped inside. It was little cooler in the tent, which smelt of waxed canvas and dry grass and something else, something familiar, which Edward couldn't quite put his finger on. For no apparent reason, or perhaps to prevent the curious from peeking a look, there was a second flap of canvas to step through before entering the main area. Arranged around the sides of the tent was a haphazard collection of display cases and stands. The first one Edward came to, immediately by the entrance, was thin legged, glass topped display case, containing an odd collection of metal components, each labelled with a small card which said things like, "5' ¾ inch carriage clock cog from the court of Louis XVII 1790" and "Regulator ball part 18596 from the Tzar's Grand Engine, date unknown".

Next to this was a display case with what looked like pistols, though unlike any pistol Edward had ever seen. There were four of them, beautifully crafted, each with a deep blue grip inlaid with gold or silver, the gun metal barrels glinted blue black. On the top of each weapon was mounted a round ended tube, the purpose of which Edward could not imagine. The label read "Nineteenth Century Gauz Pistols originally made for Crown Prince Ferdinand Von Shlochburg of the Duchy of Neimhaven-Shloch, reputedly by the master craftsman Marcus De Witt.

Edward turned to the next exhibit which was a three quarter size figurine of a woman in a classic ballet pose, she stood, with her arms held over her head, on tip toe, her left leg held across her right. Her beautiful doll face, eyes closed, looked down at Edward's feet. He leant forward to read her label when suddenly she moved, causing Edward to leap back.

The mechanical dancer's head lifted, her eyes opened and she jerked into life. She began spinning on her leg, her arms came down to her waist and her left leg stretched out. With a considerable creaking and groaning from her mechanisms she pirouetted around and around, raising and lowering her arms and bending her leg repeating her moves every second turn.

After ten or so turns she ground once more to a halt, bowing her head and closing her eyes. A loud clapping of hands and a deep chuckle from behind, caused Edward to turn and strike a defensive pose. There in the centre of the bizarre collection of mechanical oddments stood a stout man with large flourished moustaches on his upper lip and tufts of wiry hair protruding from beneath a low green felt hat, his large belly threatened to pop the buttons from his gaudy red waist-coat which clashed with the yellow and blue checks of his trousers.

"Delightful, delightful," the man was saying, a look of joy on his face as Edward span around to face him. The man was clearly enraptured by his own exhibits, but upon seeing Edward, his expression changed rapidly to one of shock, then confusion. The blood rose in his face and he seemed to stager before catching himself.

"No, it can't be," he gasped, then getting a grip on himself he recovered his wits and said, "too young of course, just as I remember him, just like the old days," he now seemed to be having a conversation with himself, oblivious to Edward's presence despite it being the source of the old man's excitement.

"I'm sorry, I just need a quick sit down," the man said, resting himself on a nearby plinth which held what looked like a piece of armature assembly standing next to a life sized stuffed bear.

The man mopped at his forehead with a large yellow handkerchief which he produced from one of his pockets. "You will have to excuse me, I thought for a moment you were... someone else, only Mr. Murgatroyd said someone had a ticket, and it's been so long, I, well..." his words trailed off as he mopped his brow again.
