Chapter 20 – Bastilion Hall
The steam-car chug chugged through the busy streets of Bath on to the Upper Bristol Road and turned off the main thoroughfare at Windsor Bridge. They past through impressive iron gates mounted on large, stone gateposts, each with a stone lion atop, standing guard.

The hard rubber rims of the steam-car crunched gravel beneath them as they drove. Either side wide grass verges held court to peacocks and white fluffy sheep. The drive led them to Bastilion Hall standing a hundred yards back from the river Avon itself. A large, dark, imposing building from the early Victorian era, a stark frontage with subdued, Gothic style, mock battlements and smallish windows giving it an austere and stern appearance like a nanny who never wholly approves of her charges, no matter how well behaved.

"The house has a way of reminding me to behave myself," said Percy, as they dismounted from the steam-car and gathered in a loose group in front of the long flat stone which formed the single front step of the manor.

"I've always though it a bit grim, I must admit," added Carmine.

"But it is home, been in the family generations, I don't suppose we'd change it now, its like an old friend," said Percy.

"You did grow up here," said Carmine.

"Should I ring Sir?" asked Chesterton removing his driving goggles and thick leather driving gauntlets.

"If you would," replied Edward.

The door was answered by a tall thin man in a black house jacket who solemnly looked over the group then, recognising Percy, said, "Ah Master Percy, I didn't see you there for a minute. Shall I tell your Father you are here?"

"Please do Jenkins," replied Percy.

Jenkins disappeared into the house and the others dutifully followed Percy into an imposing hall. A grand staircase swept up to the first floor, flanked on each side by two huge aspidistra in five foot high, dark-green glaze pots. From the walls the stern visages of Percy's ancestors surrounded by their dogs and horses, leaned casually on their guns and looked down at the visitors from their gilt framed pastoral scene.

"Welcome to Bastilion Hall," said Percy. "Perhaps we should make our way to the study." he suggested.

The Dukes' study was typical of its kind. Bookshelves lined the walls, a globe of the world stood in one corner, the Duke's large oak desk held a brass lamp, an ornate Chinese paperweight and a littering of pens and pencils. A neat pile of papers sat in a wire basket on one side of the desk and a pile of household receipts were impaled on a large bent nail.

No sooner had the friends arrived than the study door flew open and the Duke and Duchess of Bath entered the room. The Duke, a large man with an imposing grey moustache, the Duchess, a well endowed woman with a round face which always wore a smile. The Duke strode over to his son and offered his hand, "Glad to have you back Percy," he boomed.

The Duchess, moving surprisingly lightly, went over to Percy and hugged him, kissed him on the cheeks and said, "It's good to see you my darling Percy."

"Mama, Papa may I introduce my friends, Lady Apethorpe you already know of course, and these are her associates, Mr. Black, Captain Badger and Professor Chet. They have kindly agreed to help us find Emily," said Percy.

"Have they now indeed?" boomed the Duke who gave them all a good looking over. As he turned to Edward his expression changed, and he muttered, "There's something about you boy," but said nothing further.

"If you are friends of Percy's then you are welcome here," said the Duchess, "and if you can find out anything about Emily, well, we would be most awfully grateful."

"You are with the Department of Internal Affairs aren't you?" the Duke asked Carmine. "Do they know anything?"

"The fact is I'm working undercover at the moment, so I'm not as up to date with the Department's news as I should be, but I don't think so."

"Mr. Black is a private detective," said Percy, "I think he is hoping to question everyone in the house about Emily's disappearance."

"Yes, yes of course he should," said the Duchess, "Just tell us what you need Mr. Black."

"I will need a list of everyone in the house at the time of Emily's dissapearance and a room to interview everyone," Edward replied promptly.

"You can use my study," the Duke said, "as to the list, now let me see." He began rooting through the paperwork on his desk.

"It's been quite a while since we last saw you," the Duchess said to Carmine. "Indeed we'd heard a rumour you were dead, like your dear Father, who's passing we still mourn and who we already miss greatly."

"Thank you," replied Carmine. "As you can see, I'm still alive, the rumours of my death, while highly exaggerated, are useful in my current assignment, I'd appreciate it if you didn't mention to anyone that you have seen me."

"No of course not my dear, We will not say a word, but tell me, are the rumours about the Infante true?" asked the Duchess.

"I don't know," replied Carmine.

"But Vilners Darkmere was saying you were sent by the Department to bring the Infante back," insisted the Duchess.

"And it was Vilners who told us Carmine had died in the Texan Desert," snorted the Duke.

"Yes Dear, and Carmine isn't dead, so did she meet the Infante?" replied the Duchess with sweet logic.

"I did, and the last I saw of him he was still alive," replied Carmine. At this the Duke looked sharply at Edward before quickly returning his attention to the papers on his desk.

"Ah, here it is, everyone who was in the house the night Emily disappeared," he said triumphantly passing the paper to Edward who studded it carefully.

"I will need to interview everyone on this list, including yourselves. If I could start with the Duke, perhaps Jenkins would be good enough to inform the staff I shall want to see them." said Edward. "Carmine, if wouldn't mind helping me, I have a little job for Percy and Captain Badger."

He took the two over to one side and said quietly, "I want you to study the staff, see if there's any reaction to our arrival, oh, and keep on the lookout for any runners, if someone makes a break-for-it then that's probably our man," said Edward, the others nodded their agreement and left the room.

Edward looked around. "I think I'll sit here at the Duke's desk and the interviewee here in this chair." He placed a chair in-front of the desk, "Carmine if you would stand slightly behind them, yes that's it," he said, then turning to the Duke, "Your Lordship if you would be so good..." Edward indicated the chair.

The Duke sat down looking slightly uncomfortable and couldn't help a glance over his shoulder at Carmine and another at Ra Chet who stood patiently and silently next to the bookcase.

Edward cleared his throat. "Your Lordship you were in the house at the time?" he asked.

"I was." replied the Duke.

"And what were you doing exactly?"

"I was here in the study."

"And did you notice anything, anything at all?"

"Not that I can remember."

"Please, your Lordship, If we are to find Emily you must think. Anything, the smallest of details, may make all the difference."

"The only thing that comes to mind is I heard our carriage arrive early. I'd asked Johnson, our coachman, to bring the carriage round for six O'clock, but I distinctly heard the carriage arriving at five thirty."

"I see. If you think of anything else your Lordship, please mention it. Now I think I'd better see Johnson," said Edward making some rough notes on a scrap of paper he had liberated from the Duke's desk.

The Duke left and a few moments latter a surly looking dark-haired man dressed in a long leather coat and riding boots entered the room.

"Mr. Johnson?" asked Edward as the man sat down.

"That's right Sir, I'm the Duke's coachman."

"Am I right in thinking that on the night Emily disappeared the Duke asked you bring the carriage round at six O'clock?"

"You are Sir, and I brought the carriage round on the strike of six, I remember hearing the clock bell ringing as I did so," asserted the coachman.

"And you didn't see anything untoward? Notice anything unusual?"

Johnson though a moment then said slowly, "Only I likes to give the horse a last drink before a long drive and I'd put a bucket out front ready, but when I brought the carriage round the bucket was half empty."

"I see, well thank you for your cooperation Mr. Johnson, please don't go anywhere we may need to see you again."

Edward turned to Carmine as Johnson left the room. "What do you think?" he asked.

"It does seem a bit strange, the Duke hearing the carriage at five thirty." said Carmine.

"He heard a carriage at five thirty," replied Edward. "I have a theory though."

Before he could continue the door opened and a young girl wearing a cream blouse, a dark full-length skirt and a white apron, entered the study. It was clear from her swollen red rim eyes she had been recently crying.

"And you are?" Edward asked softly.

"I'm Milly Sir, Miss Emily's personal maid."

"Are you, are you indeed, I've been most keen to have a word with you, please take a seat," said Edward. The girl glanced nervously round the room at Carmine and the silent Professor Chet, before sitting down.

"You were the last to see Emily?" asked Edward.

The girl fidgeted the ties of her apron with red chapped fingers which twisted and turned the white material, without lifting her eyes from the floor she replied in tones so quiet Edward had to ask her to repeat herself.

"I suppose so Sir," she repeated pushing a strand of curly brown hair from her lowered face.

"And what time would that have been?" asked Edward.

"I don't really know, just before six O'clock, the Duke said she had to be ready for six an he don't like it when people is late," replied Milly.

"And where did you last see her?" asked Edward leaning forward in his chair.

"I er, well that is to say Sir, I saw her get into the carriage at the front of the Hall Sir."

Edward sensed a great fear in her as she said this, he was certain she was hiding something.

"You saw Emily get into the carriage, but you didn't see the Duke or Duchess, then what happened?"

"The carriage left Sir, I er, I though perhaps the Duke and Duchess were already aboard."

"So you didn't see inside the carriage? Can you remember what the driver looked like? Can you remember anything about the carriage itself?"

"No Sir, I didn't see inside the carriage. I don't know what it looked like, like an ordinary carriage I think."

"Do you remember if it had a crest on the door?"

"I'm not sure Sir, I don't think so."

"Yet you are familiar with the Dukes' carriage, it carries the Dukes' crest on its doors does it not?" Edward pressed her.

"Yes Sir," replied Milly looking very tearful again.

"And it didn't strike you as strange that the waiting carriage wasn't the Dukes' ?"

"I don't know," wailed the girl.

"I think you know more than your telling us," said Edward. "You brought your Mistress down early and put her into a strange carriage, why would you do that?"

"I don't know Sir, I can't say, I don't know anything else really I don't."

"Come come now, you can tell us," Edward cajoled her, "dry your tears and tell us everything."

"Perhaps Milly and I should go somewhere private and have a little heart to heart chat," said Carmine.

Milly looked up at her and nodded, at which Carmine took her by the elbow and gently led her from the room.

"What's all this then?" said the Duke as he came into the study. "I see you have reduced poor Milly to tears. I'm not sure I can have my staff treated like that."

Edward leant back in his chair. "My dear Duke, please, first I must conduct my investigation as I see fit, and second, that girl knows more than she is telling. I have already found out from your own statements that an unknown carriage arrived at five thirty, Milly put your daughter on board and it was gone when Johnson brought your carriage around on the strike of six. As the girl is the only witness to the mysterious carriage it is essential we find out everything she knows. Lady Apethorpe has taken the girl to calm her down and try to gain her confidence."

"I must say I'm impressed with your progress Mr. Black," said the Duke, calming down and taking a seat. "I must confess, I doubted your abilities in the investigatory arts, and I have my suspicions about you Mr. Black."

"Do you indeed?" replied Edward dryly.

"You know, if it wasn't for your beard, I'd say you were the spitting image of the late Emperor Victor II," the Duke said, piercing Edward with his steely eyes. It occurred to Edward the Duke was far more formidable than he had first thought.

"Are you telling me you think I'm the Infante? Do you really believe all those silly rumours?" asked Edward.

"I'm not saying you are the Infante, nor that I believe the gossip, but where there is smoke there is fire. One thing is certain, after years of silence on the matter, suddenly the return of the Infante is the talk of the day, whether they are claiming it or denying it. All I will say is that our allegiances lay with the old Emperor Victor II and this family would stand for the rightful accession of the true Infante to his proper state as Emperor of Britain."

Edward leaned towards the Duke and in a low voice said, "It is good to know where true friends can be found."

"And we are true to the rightful heir of the Crown." responded the Duke before sitting back in his chair. After a moment he said, "There is something else about you boy, your companion, Professor Chet here, was he acquainted with Philip Augustus?"

"I knew Lord Apethorpe," replied the mechanical man from his post by the bookshelf.

"Ah you do talk," said the Duke, "I thought I recognised that scar of yours, seen you somewhere before, you were Apethorpe Manor when I last visited Philip."

"That is correct Duke Trafford," replied Ra Chet.

They were interrupted by Carmine's return. She had an excited look on her face as she spoke in hurried tones. "I've had a very informative chat with Milly, really she was just waiting to pour her heart out to a confidant, all she need was a shoulder to cry on."

"What did she tell you?" Edward asked barely ably to hide his impatience to get to the bottom of the matter.

"She recognised the carriage, and the driver, in fact she knew the driver," said Carmine. "It was all a set up. Milly has been seeing Lord Darkmere's coachman..."

"Vilners," hissed the Duke.

"So he tells Milly it is well known the Duke would never approve of a Marriage between his daughter and Lord Darkmere," said Carmine.

"It is all my fault," moaned the Duke, "I only allowed it to go on because I didn't want to get on the Emperor's bad side. He favours the dark hearted Vilners and his kind, those who flatter his every move, praise him and who seek to destroy those who would stand up to or speak out against the Emperor."

"But what of Emily? Do we know where she is now?" asked Edward.

"Vilners plans to elope with Emily," Carmine said.

"Elope," snorted the Duke, "abduct more like."

"Yes well I think we can safely assume it is an abduction," said Carmine. "Milly though it was all exciting and romantic, the two of them eloping together, but when they got to the carriage an agent of Lord Darkmere was waiting within and when he restrained Emily, it became clear to Milly then that her Ladyship had known nothing of a plan to elope. Milly's boyfriend, the coachman told her to keep her mouth shut or her mistress would be the worse for it, so the poor girl has been torn."

"Do we know where they were bound?" asked Edward.

"Yes, Lord Dakemere's castle, at Blackwater in the Cornish marshes," replied Carmine.

"Then it is to Cornwall we must go," declared Edward, "and without a moment to loose."

"You must catch him before he leaves the country," the Duke called after them, "He can't Marry her in England, she's too young."

"The Duke is right," said Carmine as they gathered the others, "but there are plenty of places for him to choose from."

Within the hour Chesterton had the steam-car all stoked up and with a good head of steam and the party drove swiftly back up the drive headed for Cornwall.
