Chapter 3 – Encounter with highwaymen
Edward had been walking for about an hour when he saw a light in the distance. Soon he able to make out the black silhouette of a town house and see the thin wisps of smoke which came from it's chimney. A dog barked in the darkness. As Edward approached the light he could see it came from an old iron street-lamp, a gas flame flickered brightly in its little glass box. He crossed the road staying in shadows. Creeping through the dark night Edward entered the town of Blacksteel.

The road surface became firmer, harder, more compacted as he approached the town square. Now the sides of the road were flagged with stone pavement, giving the townspeople somewhere they could walk without dragging their skirts and coat tails in the mud.

The modern brick buildings which lay on the outskirts of Blacksteel began to give way to older stone buildings of the town proper. These were grand structures, not the small terraced houses and cottages of working folk but the rich halls and residences of the local ruling classes. Many had steps which climbed to black painted doors adorned with polished brass fittings. Iron railings ran along the fronts of the buildings and every window frame was painted white.

Edward heard footsteps in the street ahead and looking for a place to hide he spotted a dark ally just beyond the next house. Quickly and quietly he crept around the house and into the relative safety of the darkness beyond. A little back from the road he found some boxes and a metal bin to crouch behind. The footsteps continued their steady pace. When it sounded like they'd drawn level with the ally Edward risked a peek. A tall dark figure in a distinctive dome shaped hat stood silhouetted against the gas light. It was the local Constable in his bright buttoned blue uniform. Edward ducked lower in his hiding place as the Constable shone a brass lamp down the ally. It's weak flickering light played across stone walls and over the wooden crates which hid Edward.

The Constable coughed then his light disappeared. A moment later Edward heard the sound of the Constable moving on. Cautiously he crept to the end of the ally and peered out. He could see the Constable's back receding as the man strolled off continuing his patrol. Edward tiptoed quickly along the pavement dodging through the shadows and avoiding the weak pools of gas light. The road before him opened into a wide square lined with houses. At one end of the square stood the church, it's black spire pointing to the stars. On the East side stood the pubic house, from which the strains of drunken singing could be heard. On the opposite side of the square stood the town court and next to it the Magistrate's house. Edward crept around the edge of the main square, avoiding the central market and corn exchange.

At the steps to the Magistrate's house Edward faltered. He read the small brass plaque on the gate post, "The Hon. P. Barnstable JP, Magistrate". Was he doing the right thing? Edward wondered. He didn't know, he didn't have anywhere else to go, no one else to turn to. 

Taking his tattered cap in hand he climbed up the steps to the black door and lifted the large brass ring which hung from the mouth of a brass lion, and let it fall against the door with a resounding thud. Silence followed. Edward listened for the steps of the returning Constable and for any sounds from within. After a minute he raised the knocker again, thud, thud. The Magistrate's house remained silent and dark, no light showed at the window. Edward began to wonder what to do next, the Magistrate didn't appear to be in and he couldn't delay. Every moment his disappearance might be discovered. He hoped he wouldn't be missed until morning but he couldn't rely on it. He needed to be away from here as soon as possible.

While caught up in his thoughts a sudden noise came from the Public House. The noise grew louder as the door opened and several gentlemen staggered from the warm yellow fug into the cold street night. One of them was clearly worse for wear as he continued singing a ditty in a loud voice to the insistent shushing of his companions. They helped their drunken friend across the square moving in Edward's general direction. He had no where to hide. Looking round feverishly there was no where he could go without them seeing him. He stood still as a statue and hoped they wouldn't notice him.

"You've had more than a skin full tonight Jedediah." Edward heard one of the men say. "It's best you get yourself to bed and no mistake. Your head will be paying for this in the morning."

"Not as much as his purse paid tonight." joked the other.

"Well the less said of that the better." replied the first.

They reached Jedediah's door and the first man began fumbled through Jedediah's pockets for his  keys. The other leant forward and began a great knocking on the door.

"Shush that." said the first man. "You'll wake the whole town and then where will we be?"

As he spoke a light came on in Jedediah's house and a few moments later a sleep weary and annoyed house keeper opened the door.

"And now what has his Lordship been up to?" she asked. "Have we been visiting the Black Horse and over indulging in its victuals again Sir?" she continued, taking the drunken Jedediah by the arm. "I'll thank you good gents for returning his Lordship, though I don't know whether to thank ye for the state he's in or not."

The first man grunted at her and the two stepped away, the housekeeper saying "Best get you to bed Sir." as she closed the door on them. They stood at the bottom of Jedediah's steps talking a moment.

"You'll be trying that anarchist in the morning no doubt your honour." said the other man.

"Aye, his trial's due to start on the morrow though I've to see over my orchards at Grimthorp Hill so he may have to wait till the aftermorrow. Depends on my head in the morning see?" the first laughed.

"Well he's been banged to rights so it's only likely saving his neck for one more day, anyways that you look at it." the other said.

"Well now lets not be hasty, he has to have a fair trial. As the Magistrate in these parts I have to been seen to be doing things properly." The first said.

"No doubt your Honour, and I meant nothing by my remark than to say the evidence stacks strongly against him. I hear the Imperial Agent is to give evidence on him and all."

"I'll give no legitimacy to what you've heard, if you want to hear the truth then be in court on the morrow." said the Magistrate.

"Or the following." laughed the other as he walked away toward the church. The Magistrate turned towards his own door. He was mounting the steps, his long thin frame protected by an equally long black cloak when he noticed Edward. For a moment he was clearly startled, but then perceiving that this was no anarchist come for revenge but rather a poor boy standing before him, he said "What do we have here then?"

"Please Sir are you the Magistrate?" asked Edward twisting his cap anxiously.

"I am Magistrate Barnstable." he answered. "What will you be wanting at this time of night."

"Sir, I'm fleeing the Orphanage in fear for my life and I heard you might have a sympathetic ear." said Edward.

"Is that so." Magistrate Barnstable said thoughtfully. "I think I may be of some help in that case."

Edward was relieved. "Thank you Sir, I don't know where to turn Sir." he babbled as the Magistrate led him down a side passage to the back of the house. They walked along side a high stone wall and turned into the street behind. The Magistrate opened a large wooden gate and guided Edward into the yard beyond. He knocked at a back door and after a few moments a man in shirt sleeves with a big black moustache and a pipe held in the corner of his mouth opened the door.

"Your Honour." the man nodded at the Magistrate.

"Start the steam car Benson, were taking this boy on a little journey." said the Magistrate.

"Right you are Sir." replied Benson pulling on his jacket and crossing the backyard to the carriage shed. He rolled back the doors revealing the horseless carriage. Its brass fittings gleamed in the lamp light, as did the black painted steel suspension which curved gracefully between the wheels. Benson went to the back of the carriage and and set a light under the rear boiler.

They waited while the oil burner heated the water boiler. All the while Benson checked water levels, tapped gauges and twiddled small brass ajusting wheels. Magistrate Barnstable said "Have you been in a steam car before boy?"

"No Sir." replied Edward excitement showing in his voice. A steam car, he'd not ever ridden a horse or in a carriage let alone a steam car.

"This'll be a real treat for you then boy." the Magistrate assured him. "It's a Clarkson Mark IV oil burning steam car, with the latest in parabolic brass lamps, and pure Malaysian solid rubber tyres with a steel suspension. Impressed boy." the last asked with a tone of voice that implied anything but being very impressed just would not do.

"Oh yes Sir." replied Edward enthusiastically.

Soon the boiler had gained a good head of steam and Benson nodded to his master.

"Right your Honour., she's ready to roll." he said.

"All aboard." the Magistrate called playfully and he opened the burnished wooden door of the carriage. He helped Edward, almost pushing him into the carriage and followed swiftly in behind calling out to the driver as he did so. "To the Orphanage Benson." and the carriage door slammed shut.

Edward's heart sunk. He was going straight back. The carriage lurched into motion with a hiss of steam, rumbled out of the yard and along the back street making a hiss-a-gu-chuck, hiss-a-gu-chuck noise as it rolled along. If he hadn't felt so betrayed Edward would have rather enjoyed himself, but as it was, the black road barely visible through the small front window and the almost black of the inside of the carriage, Magistate Barnstable's sharp elbow poked in his ribs. Edward felt tired and defeated. The carriage rolled on through town towards the open road which led back to the Orphanage.

Soon the steam car left the town lamps behind and nothing could be seen through the window. When, a little later, the car came to a juddering halt, Edward braced himself for the sever beating he'd be getting from Sniderby. The sound of muffled voices came from outside. A raised voice could be heard, then a sudden silence, which was followed by an ominous thump on the carriage roof, a rattling came at the door and it was wrenched open and a bright lamp shone in.

"Now what do we have here?" said a rough voice. "His nibs Magestrate Barnstable I do believe, and who else? Surely not his son?"

"Now look here my good man." blustered the Magistrate. "Just what do think is going on here?"

"Well I'm sure your Honour's business is his own." replied the rough voice. "That said his Lordships business is now mine and if his Lordship doesn't want to end up face down in the dirt like his lackey here, then he'd better be turning out his pockets. You too son, lets see what you've got."

"I really don't know what you thinking your doing." Barnstaple protested "But I'm not having any of it."

The man said nothing as he hit the Magistrate in the face with the butt of a revolver. Realising this was a robbery, Edward decided to throw himself on the mercy of the highwaymen.

"Sir, please Sir." pleaded Edward. "I'm being take by force, here let me help you." He began turning out the Magistrate's pockets for him as the injured man lay in the foot well moaning and holding his bleeding nose.

"You'll be hung. The lot of you." Barnstable mumbled through bloody fingers and swollen nostrils.

At this the masked man at the door said. "Right son, you'd better come with us." he ripped a gleaming watch from the Magistrate's waistcoat pocket and pulled a ring from an unresisting finger before disappearing into the night. Edward fell out of the hateful carriage, clutching the things he'd found in the magistrate's pockets.

Picking himself up from the road he found himself surrounded by four men in wide brimmed hats wearing masks made from scraps of cloth. Each wore a heavy coat which fell below the knee and on their feet, tattered leather boots. Benson lay face down and motionless on the ground near the front of the steam-car and Edward couldn't tell if he was dead or alive.

"Don't mind about him." said the highwayman, "You're coming with us." Another highwayman dug Edward in the back with what he imagined was a pistol and all five of them moved off the road and into the fields. They trudged a while through the short stalks of harvested wheat and round the haystacks till they came to a small copse of trees where the highwaymen had tied up four tired looking horses. Edward was forced to climb onto a horse and one of the highwaymen took place behind him, then they all set off at a reasonable pace.

For an hour or so there was silence among the highwaymen as they rode across fields and through damp woods. They kept a distance from towns and roads preferring trees and hedges to open fields. Eventually they entered a large wood. As the sun began to rise and weak light filtered through the thick foliage they came to a cave mouth carved by nature into the side of a rocky outcrop. The highwaymen dismounted and pushing Edward ahead of them led their horses into the cave.

A stabling area for eight or so horses had been errected along one side of the cave and this led to a narrow entrance at the back, through which came the dull orange flickering of torch light. The men put their horses to stall and took Edward deeper into the cave. A short tunnel led to a second chamber offering several doors and at the rear a wooden staircase which wound up round the walls up to a second level. Two women sat on a low bench working at a rough wood table set in the middle of the room, they looked up as the men came in. The relief at seeing the men safe, clearly written on their faces.

The men began taking off their coats and masks while the women fussed around them putting mugs and plates on the table, and it was a few moments before Edward was spotted.

"Who's this then?" a woman in her late twenties asked when she saw Edward standing quietly by the entrance.

"Says he was being taken against his will and we couldn't leave him to a hanging." answered the highwayman settling himself at the table.

"You can't bring him here he might give our hiding place away." she objected.

"It's too late for that, besides the boy has no idea where he is. Do you lad?" the highwayman addressed Edward.

"No Sir." Edward replied.

"And less of the Sir. You're a highwayman now boy. I'm Derek Badger leader of the infamous Badger gang. That's Boss to you." Derek told him.

"Yes Sir, er Boss. Yes Boss." said Edward. The women laughed.

"Sit down son." said the older woman. "You're making the place look untidy." The younger woman disappeared through one of the doorways into a back room, from which came the most delicious smells Edward had ever experienced. He began to salivate and his stomach let out a long loud groan which set the others laughing again.

"I can see your ready for a bit of old Betsie's rabbit stew." Derek said.

"Old, The cheek of it." The older woman protested pulling Derek's cap over his eyes.

"This is Roger, Pete and John, and the girl in the kitchen is Ruth," said Derek introducing the others. "Now who might you be?"

"Edward, Edward Blacksteel... Boss." replied Edward.

"Eddy it is then." Derek said.

"Blacksteel?" queried Betsie." Aint you an orphan then?"

"Yes, Ma'am." replied Edward.

"He's a polite one and no mistake." laughed Betsie. "But you can call me Mum." she told him.

The noise of conversation and the smell of good food brought two other residents of the cave into the main room. A boy about Edward's age and a very old man.

"Here's Rob and Pops." Boss Badger announced as two more came down the stairs. "Rob's been on lookout duty in the hide on the hill. Got to keep a good lookout in these times. And old Pops here, well he's probably been having a snooze."

A wizened old man with a white whiskery face and a back bent with age, carefully made his way down the stairs followed by a brown haired gangly youth with a pleasant face, whose frame was just beginning to fill out with the first signs of manhood.

Rob and Pops took their places at the table as Ruth brought a steaming pot of stew from the kitchen and Derek took out his revolver to began cleaning the chambers.

"We're about to eat Derek." objected Betsie.

"Got to keep the equipment tip top Mum." replied Boss Badger while he continued his inspection of the weapon turning the grey metal in his large hands, steel blue eyes carefully inspecting its every detail. Ruth began to dole out large spoonfuls of delicious rabbit and dumpling stew with carrots, onions and thick rich gravy which to Edward smelt heavenly. The revolver cleaning was swiftly forgotten. A satisfied silence fell over the assembly as the final drops of rabbity goodness were wiped from battered tin plates with lumps of crusty bread. The silence was broken when Derek let forth a gusty belch.

"So what did you get tonight, besides the boy?" asked Betsie.

"Well lets see, this magnificent watch." Derek pulled a large fob watch on a heavy chain from his pocket and dangled it for all to see. "And what ever the boy found in the Magistrate's pockets."

"Magistrate? What Magistrate?" asked an alarmed Betsie.

"Blacksteel Magistrate." Derek told her. "We stopped his steam-car on the Holingbrook road, held it up we did." He smiled wickedly round as the men nodded and grinned in approval.

"That's not good." said Pops. "He's important him, they'll be wanting to hang someone for that."

"Well they've got to catch someone first." retorted Derek, "and meanwhile I have his watch, his gold ring and..." he looked at Edward who immediately turned out his pockets and spilt the Magistrate's belongings onto the table. Coins clattered and ratted round the tin plates, a wallet, a silk handkerchief, a cheep fountain pen and a letter with a broken seal also fell to the table.

They poured over the haul scrabbling for the change while Derek opened the wallet and tipped out several large notes. "He's got a hundred pound in here." Derek said with amazement and they all stared at the ten large white notes with the black and red ink print on them. None of them had ever seem so much money before and were in awe of it.

"There'll be trouble." said Pops.

"Look at all this money." said Derek. "We're rich. Stop your worrying old man, they'll never find us and it wont be long before the magistrate's forgotten."

"It's not the money." said Pops. "It's that letter."

"What do you know about that letter old man, you haven't even read it." replied Derek.

"No, but I know the Imperial seal when I see it." he said gloomily.

"Imperial seal?" Derek picked up the letter and inspected it. It had been closed with a large red blob of wax which was cleanly snapped in half. "You'd better read it then hadn't you." Derek said angrily throwing the letter at Pops.

"Aye I'd better, seems as I'm the only one here as can read." he replied picking up the letter and unfolding it. While he read the men went back to drooling over the bank notes.

"This isn't good." the old man said tapping the thick paper with a crooked finger.

"What do you mean? What does it say?" asked Derek impatiently.

"It's a letter from the Imperial Office giving the Agent jurisdiction in this area." replied Pops.

"And just what does that mean?" asked Derek.

"It means that the Imperial Agent is now the law through out the West Ridings. It means he's judge jury and executioner and if he needs more men, then he has every copper and every militiaman in these parts to his command. It means he'll want his letter back." Pops groaned.
