Chapter 15 – London Town
Edward, Robert, Carmine and Captain Legate assembled in a room immediately below the Kasteel turret which served as the castle's airship dock. Each member of the party resplendent in their new Swazaskolian outfit. The men in green felt Tyrolean hats with goose feather, embroidered blouson shirts and brown moleskin britches. Lady Carmine wore a simple rose pink blouse and long green skirt with a full-length velvet cloak, lined with silk. Edward thought they all looked suitably foreign and eastern European in appearance, though he had no idea what eastern Europeans wore. He  suggested they adopt some suitably foreign accents, but Isambard, despite his own thick Dutch accent, said European Aristocrats were usually at great effort to sound as English as the Emperor, with the exception of the French and Spanish, who took great effort to sound as French or Spanish as possible, perhaps because to the hostilities between them and the British, perhaps as a matter of national pride.

"So young Edward, this is quite the adventure we are embarked upon," remarked Captain Legate. "I hope you are prepared."

"I trust in your training Captain," replied Edward. "And where it may be remiss, I'm sure I can rely on the good advice I have received from Professor Van Klees," he teased Legate, who snorted something unintelligible.

"Boys, I do believe the Valiant is approaching," said Carmine. "I suggest we ascend to the mooring mast and wait for her there."

A few minutes later they stood watching as a sailor moored the Valiant and the gangway was lowered to the turret allowing them all to climb aboard. The instant Captain Legate, who was last up the gangway, had stepped aboard, the Valiant rose up into the blue skies. Edward chose to remain on the narrow walkway which ran around the side of the airship, and though the wind was chilling it offered him the best views as they sailed over the flat pastoral landscape of Northern Holland.

After an hour or so the Valiant reached the Dutch coast and began crossing the English Channel heading directly for London. Below he saw white sails and the bobbing hulls of fishing boats, dark plumes of smoke puffed from steam boats stacks as they plied the grey blue waters of the English Channel. The sea showed no fleck of foam, no chop or swell, but held to a placid glassy surface. At one point a shoal of dolphin or porpoise chased the airship's shadow over the waves, appearing to fly across the water as they played and raced below, the sunlight shining on their oily skins.

It was just past the midday hour when the mouth of the Thames hove into view and soon after  Edward saw the skyline of the great city in the distance. London, the heart of the British Empire, the jewel in the crown, and what a jewel. As the Thames wound westward through the city Edward could see the streets and buildings laid out below him, along the north bank bank the great buildings of government, Big Ben, Westminster palace, Trafalgar and the Admiralty, the seat of the British Civil Service and bureaucracy, from where the entire Empire and it's colonies were commanded. On the opposition side the great cultural experiences of the South bank, the colossal Ferris wheel with it's Viennese style carriages which gave the great populace an eagle eyed view of the city, the markets, restaurants and public houses, artists communes. Floating over this seething mass of people and grand architecture floated numerous airships of every colour.

If he had been better acquainted with the livery and crests of the European aristocracy and the great industrialists Edward would have known the large black airship with the blood red double headed eagle which was docked at Charring Cross mast, was the Ambassador of the Russian Republic's ship, and the gold and red ship docked at a Soho mast was that of the Ambassador of the King of Spain. Right across the city Edward could see airships gracefully crossing the sky and docking at masts in clusters of twos and threes like the oversized petals of surreal and gigantic flowers blooming above the rooftops. There was a particularly large grouping of ships over Victoria Station, this being the closest mast to Buckingham Palace, the seat of the Empire and home of the Emperor, Victor III.

As she came up the river and past over the centre of the city, the Valiant began to descend to the airfield at Battersea park. As the ship sank lower Edward could make out faces of the people sailing the various craft which plied the Thames. Boats of all shapes, sizes and colours, large cargo barges hauled coal from the North, cotton from the Colonies, wool for the mills and iron for the foundries, other boats carried people across the river or made a trade selling bread and pies, ale and cakes to the barge workers or carried household items, enamelled buckets,  steel files, scissors, gun barrels, penknives, sword hilts and any fashion of imaginable and useful goods, while yet others carried high class silks and linens or herbs and spices from the East and the Orient. Many of these vessels were headed for  the floating market at Hendon.

"You had better hold on tight," one of the Valiant's sailors told Edward. "We are about to moor and it might get a bit bumpy."

Edward nodded to the man and heeded his advice, and held the thin rope railing which was all that was between him and a deadly fall. The Valiant's pilot brought the ship in to dock with great expertise and if they hadn't been bumped by a neighbouring ship just as the breeze changed direction, it would have been a perfect landing. As it was at the last moment the ships' hull shuddered and jarred against its neighbour and Edward would have been thrown from his lofty perch if he had not heeded the sailor's advice.

A few moments later the airship was made secure and the party able to descend from the Valiant to the green grass of Battersea Park. Almost immediately the Valiant loosed its moorings and rose back into the air freeing the spot for its already approaching replacement.

A brass and iron, closed, steam-car rumbled across the field towards the group and came to a halt before them in a cloud of steam and a hissing of pistons. The drivers' door popped open with a dull clank and Chesterton jumped out dressed in a long leather driving coat and thick goggles.

"Good day Lady and Gentlemen, if you are ready I have transportation to take you to Fairfield House where your gracious hosts the Blatchington-Smythes are waiting to receive you." He opened the passenger door for them.

As Edward waited for the others to climb aboard the steam-car he noticed it was unmarked except for a simple flower motif embossed on the passenger doors. Climbing aboard he pulled the door shut and a moment later Chesterton was building up pressure in the main cylinder and they were off chugging along at a brisk trot. At the edge of the park they followed a stream of steam vehicles and horse drawn carriages onto the main thoroughfare.

A mass of humanity pressed in the streets, beggars and priests, tradesmen, washer women and urchins. A large man in a big white apron covered in flour dust carried a wooden tray on his head shouting, "Hot cakes, get your hot cakes." A haggard faced old woman with a big red nose and black hooded cloak thrust a bunch of flowers up at the car window crying, "Buy some flowers young Sirs, please buy my flowers, they'll bring good luck they will."

Progress was slow over a packed Battersea bridge and along Beaufort Street, but once they had turned on to the Kings Road the traffic became swifter as the way was now free of street vendors, sightseers and day-trippers. Elegantly dress gentlemen and elaborately dressed ladies perambulated leisurely along wide pavements admiring the rare and expensive goods displayed in shop windows by purveyors of the finest merchandise to the gentry and even, to the Emperor himself. Shops lucky enough to make this claim proudly displayed the Emperor's coat of arms on their windows.

Shortly they arrived at Sloan Square and past through to the north going on into Eaton Gate where, after taking a turn or two along the park streets, pulled up in front of a modest house in a secluded mews just around the corner from Belgrave Square Gardens.  A black painted iron railing guarded the basement light-well and a small stone bridge formed the front steps leading to a black painted door with a shiny brass knocker, letter-flap and the number twenty two.

As the steam-car came to a halt outside the house the door opened and a butter stepped out to help usher the foreign aristocrats indoors. "His Lordship is please to receive you inside," he said, before passing a few discreet words with Chesterton about arraignments.

Rob led the others into to the cool of the marble floored entrance hall. A tall well dressed man in his late fifties with a large grey moustache, a red face and something of a twinkle in his eye was grumbling at a large grandfather clock which stood at one side of the hallway.

"Blinking thing never seems to keep time what," he said, seemingly addressing the clock itself, then he turned and saw his guests.

Rob stepped forward and said, "Sir Blatchington-smythe may I present his Highness Prince Constantine Prevaclouz of the Grand Duchy of Swzaskol, and his Cousin Princess Claudine."

Edward clipped a smart bow to the Englishman, who returned a deep nod.

"The prince is most grateful for your kind hospitality during his visit to your beautiful country," continued Rob.

"Yes, well your very welcome, just make yourselves at home I'm sure, My wife, Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe will be joining us in just a moment I'm sure," this last remark was delivered at a considerably louder volume and accompanied by a glance up the stairs. With a palpable sense of relief from Sir Blatchington-Smythe the lady herself appeared at the head of the staircase and hurried down to greet her guests.

"A, ha, I hope Gerald has made you comfortable," said Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe, slightly out of breath and still tucking a stray lock of auburn hair under an elaborate blue silk hat, she put her best 'meeting Royalty' smile on her pretty pink face. Edward couldn't help noticing as she bobbed and curtsied that she was a good many years younger than her husband.

"A pleasure to meet you," said Edward, taking Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe's delicate hand and kissing it while looking into her eyes. She smiled, almost giggling and curtsied again while her fingers wiggled in his hand.

"You have a beautiful wife Sir," said Edward.

"You are too gratuitous your highness," she replied. "May I also introduce our daughter Penelope." A slim figure in a striking, deep blue dress walked gracefully down the stairs, a younger, even more beautiful version of her mother.

"Your Highness," the young girl said in soft clear tones as she curtsied. Edward took her hand and kissed it while gazing into to big blue eyes.

At that moment Chesterton and the Butler came in. "Ah Smedley," said Sir Blatchington-Smythe addressing the Butler. "This damn clock seems to be loosing time again. Send a boy to fetch the timekeeper and we'll get her put straight again." Smedley was dully dispatched.

"If I may?" said Edward taking from his waistcoat pocket the watch Van Der Klees had given him and popping the cover up. "I have three o'clock."

"Um, are you sure your highness, it doesn't seem so late in the day," said Sir Blatchington-Smythe.

"Ah, yes off course," said Edward. "My timepiece is on Paris time."

"And we are on Greenwich time your highness, it is two o'clock here in London, by your watch, which like mine makes the clock slow also."

The timekeeper arrived, a sprightly lady in her fifties dressed in black. With great ceremony she produced a timepiece the size of an orange and after careful examination of its face she declared it to be two minutes passed two, agreeing exactly with Edward's watch.

"Well that settles it then, this damn hall clock is slow."

"Now dear, I'm sure our guests have heard more than enough about the inadequacies of our hall clock," Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe chided her husband. "They may prefer to freshen themselves after their long journey," she suggested.

Penelope, who's gaze had been firmly on Edward's face throughout this watched him with her big blue eyes as Smedley led the party up the stairs.

In his room, a large, airy, well appointed, space with a view overlooking the street, Edward felt the heat of Carmine's gaze on the back of his neck.

"I'm not sure I trust these Blatchington-Smythe's," she said haughtily from the doorway. "Particularly the simpering mother and the doe eyed daughter."

Edward laughed, "I do believe you are jealous."

Carmine gave him a heated look and crossing her arms turned her back on him.

"They seemed fine to me," said Rob, which earned him a glare over the shoulder from Carmine.

Chesterton enterd the room. "Your highness, the Duke of Northumberland has sent invitations for you and your cousin to join him at the Emperor's ball tomorrow night at the Crystal Palace. If you are so inclined, he will send a carriage to collect you, and the Blatchington-Smythe's request the honour of your presence at a small banquet they are throwing here tonight, in your honour."

"No doubt so they can thrust that daughter of theirs at Edward all evening," remarked Carmine, her green eyes flashing with contempt.

"They are our hosts, and we mustn't raise any suspicions," warned Captain Legate. "You should attend the banquet Edward and play the part of Swzaskolvian Prince to the full. As to their daughter, well you'll be there to keep an eye on your cousin Lady Carmine and ensure he comes to no harm."

They made their excuses and left Edward alone in his room. Having washed his face and changed his shirt for an even more elaborately embroidered one, he felt he aught to have a word with Carmine, who seemed to him, to be behaving very strangely. He found her alone in the room laid out for her, which was almost as large as his own.

"Is everything all-right?" asked Edward.

"Fine, everything is fine, why shouldn't it be?" she retorted curtly.

"I don't know, you seem a little out of sorts is all," replied Edward.

"Everything is fine," she repeated, then after a moments reflection, "I suppose being in London again reminds me of my Father and how much I miss him."

Edward stood silent feeling her lose.

"You know he had a little rhyme he would tell me when I was feeling down," she said, "It's silly really but it always made me feel better."

"With flowing locks of golden hair
like sunlit corn in summer air
so fair of face and lips so red
as autumn berries, it is said

Her smile so sweet and filled with joy
would take the heart of any boy
from golden locks to pinky toes
so fair and true a northern rose

She danced and laughed beneath a tree
who heard her felt their sorrows flee
from vision of her, slow to part
so beautiful a southern heart"

"How strange," mused Edward, "that your father should have given us each half a poem. I think it means something."

"I always thought it was about me," confessed Carmine.

"We should tell Isambard about it as soon as we get the chance," Edward suggested. "That is, if it's agreeable with you."

"Do you really think it means something?" she asked.

"Well it sounds like it does, but Isambard will know for sure," Edward replied confidently.

A knock came at the door and Carmine called "enter", it was Chesterton.

"Your Highnesses the Blatchington-Smythe's guests are beginning to arrive and I fear the evenings entertainment can not properly begin without your presence."

"You can assure Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe that we will be joining them shortly," Carmine told him.

"Very good Ma'am," Chesterton bowed smartly and retired from the room.

"I suppose we should go," said Edward.

"She can wait a few more minutes," replied Carmine, "We must show her who is royalty and who is the social climber," Lady Carmine Augustus assured Edward.

"And we do that by sitting idly here?" said Edward.

"We do it by being fashionably late, and if it means sitting here to accomplish that, then sit here we must."

Edward found the waiting rather dull and began pacing the room. He opened a door at random and found himself peering into a sizeable wardrobe that contained precisely nothing and which smelt slightly musty.

"Will you settle down and be calm," Carmine insisted, "take this time to compose yourself, you are supposed to be a Blood Prince of the Duchy of Swzaskol."

"Blood Princes of Swzaskol are an impatient and active breed," Edward replied poking at a hatstand with the point of his ceremonial sword.

"Very well, let us be on our way before you massacre an innocent hat with your sword."

As they entered the reception room it was clear they had made Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe wait long enough for she was now in a state of high tension and considerable fluster. The relief on her face at their appearance was highly apparent.

"Your highnesses," she simpered, "I'm honoured you choose to grace our modest function. If I may be permitted to introduce you to some of our other guests," she led then toward a plump middle aged couple who, from Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe's demeanour, were clearly the next most important people in the room after Edward and Carmine.

"Lord and Lady Forester, may I introduce you to Crown Prince Constantine of Swzaskol. Lord Forester holds an important position in the department of trade." said Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe.

Thus began a seemingly endless round of introductions, until, eventually Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe seemed to have exhausted the possibilities for introductions and with some relief the ringing of a gong announced dinner was served in the Banquet hall.

On  the whole Edward found it rather pleasant, there was a thrill to maintaining the fiction that he and Carmine were foreign royalty. He even went so far as to invent some small manufactured items that the Swzaskolvians might be interested in trading in, and hinted at an improved gun, but this last idea brought rather too intense interest and he quickly dropped it.

Despite the pleasantness of the evening, Edward was tired from travelling and, wherever he turned, there seemed to be an eager Penelope smiling longingly at him. He gratefully retired to his room as soon as he was able. None the less the hour was late and he quickly found himself drifting off into a deep dreamless sleep.
