Chapter 13 -  Kasteel De Haar
The following day, Edward rose from a good nights sleep and made his way to the observation gallery where Chesterton was serving breakfast. He sat with a cup of tea and looking out through the enormous window, watched the cold blue seas roll off to the far horizon.

Was he really the Infante? Or just a pawn in someone else's game, a lucky coincidence? But then there was the poem to consider. Carmene's father had taught him it and the Duke had known the poem too. And what of this League of the White Rose which the Duke had mentioned, his most loyal followers, was the Duke the only one left? How did he feel about being Edward Infante? His new situation was a world away from the life he had known up till now and everything felt strange, it sat uncomfortably with him, the clothes, the elegant rooms, the way people behaved towards him, it seemed in so many ways to be an illusion. He could almost believe the airship would land, and it would suddenly be over. Then again, Edward Infante, heir to the throne of England and the British Empire. It had a certain ring to it, and if it were true, could he live up to the task.

As he sat with these thoughts and doubts rushing round his head he saw something in the distance. As the minutes passed a long black line became visible on the horizon, and soon after Edward could clearly make out a thin line of golden sands and the green grass of land. At that moment Chesterton came into the room.

"I thought you'd like to know Sir, we are approaching the Dutch coast. I'm told by Captain Echart that we will be arriving shortly and the Duke has asked you ride with him in the Valiant to Kasteel De Haar, he will be departing within the hour. Edward spend a few more minutes watching as the land grew closer and closer, until the thin yellow strip of flat sands drifted under the airship and they now flew over the flat expanses of farmland which compose southern Holland.

The Duke was waiting for him in the Valiant with Robert and Captain Legate.

"Where's Lady Carmine and Isambard?" asked Edward.

"They ride in another other airship," said the Duke, "and follow us shortly."

The Valiant sliped her moorings and was haulled towards the dock doors by ten of the Wetherby's crew, where her engines, with a hiss of steam and belch of smoke began turning her propellers and she glided from the Wetherby under her own power. They rode for almost an hour before slowly loosing height as they arrived over the Kasteel.

The centre piece of Kasteel Van Haar was a proud, stone fortified keep, surrounded by vast rolling grounds. A grand manor and several surrounding buildings, constructed in a typical Dutch style, stood under the protecting wing of the keep, while lush lawns ran from the manor down to a lake of green placid waters. From his vantage point in the air Edward could see agricultural endeavour all around the estate; barns and traditional cottages, a field being ploughed, farm hands digging turnips and in the orchards, fruit pickers filling large carts with apples, pears and other fruit, while smoke rose lazily from both of the estates' bakeries and the blacksmith's forge.

The Valiant approached the main keep formed of a large rotund with castellated walls and an iron airship mast mounted on it's west rampart. The Valiant's nose cable was lowered and soldiers on the keep walls hauled the valiant to its berth at the mast. A few moments later the gangplank was lowered and passenger's were able to disembark.

At first Edward felt rather unsteady standing on firm ground again. While he was striding back and forth to get his ground legs, a pleasant middle-aged couple, well dressed with welcoming smiles, approached the disembarking group. The man, tall dark-haired and well built stepped forward and hugged the Duke.

"Guy, is good to see you again," he said in strongly accented English.

Turning to Edward the Duke said, "May I introduce your kind hosts, The Grand Duke Leopold and the Duchess, Cathrine Van Der Hoakfen," and turning to the Grand Duke and Duchess he introduced Edward, "The royal Infante Edward York."

"Your Highness," Grand Duke Leopold said to Edward, "I welcome you to De Haar, please treat our home as your home. My dear wife Cathrine has had rooms in the West wing for you prepared and also your entourage," the Grand Duke turned to Northumberland. "Naturally she has been putting you in your usual apartments my Dear Guy."

The grand Duke and Northumberland led the way down the keeps' spiral stone staircase while the grand Duchess let Edward take her arm and they followed, with Robert, Captain Legate and Chesterton bringing up the rear.

To Edward the grand Duchess was the most elegant woman he'd ever seen. Diminutive where her husband was stocky. She wore her long blond hair in a single plat which ran down her back all the way to her narrow waist, and she wore a simple gold head band. Her long green dress cascaded to the floor. While she walked the hem of the garment seemed to ripple like water around her feet as she gracefully descended the keeps steps.

"How was your journey my Lord?" she asked politely, her English also heavily accented with Dutch tones. "Not too tiring I trust?"

"No, not at all," Edward assured her, as the journey had been far from so to his mind, it had  been rather exciting, impressive and somewhat instructive, and if he were honest with himself, a little bewildering and new.

"I hope you will find your stay with us pleasant my Lord," said the grand Duchess. "I personally over saw the appointment of your rooms. They are the very rooms your father used when he last visited with us, though it seems so long ago now."

"I'm sure I'll like them as much as he did," said Edward, now quite excited to see the rooms, to see something of his father, the father he knew nothing about.

At some point the grand Duke and the Duke of Northumberland had disappeared without Edward noticing, and he found himself alone with the Duchess being led down a wide corridor in the west wing of the manor. Deep rich red carpets covered the floors while small dark statues stood in alcoves placed at regular intervals all along the corridor. At length they came to an impressive set of rich oak double doors and stopped. It was a moment or two before Edward realised the grand Duchess was waiting for him to open the door. He took the large brass handle in his hand and gave it a good heave. The door was far better oiled and far lighter on its hinges than he had expected and it flew open. Within lay a palatial room, marble floored covered with woven carpets from the middle east, delicately carved furniture was tastefully placed and tall gold framed portraits of people he didn't recognise looked down at him from the walls.

Grand Duchess Cathrine walked across the room towards double doors which led to a balcony, but before she reached these she paused by a small picture hung over a walnut bureaux.

"This picture hangs normally in the long gallery below, but I though you might like to have it here in your rooms," she said.

Edward looked at the picture, a man and a woman were standing arm in arm under the spreading branches of a tree. A horse stood close by and in the background a castle could be seen on a far hill.

"The Emperor Victor II and his consort Elisabeth, your father and mother," the grand Duchess told him.

Edward looked closely at the couple, so these were the parents he'd missed so terribly all his life, the people he'd hoped would one day come and take him away from Blacksteel Orphanage, but they had never come for him, and now he knew why.

The man in the picture looked every inch an Emperor, tall and hansom, dark haired with a regal nose. The woman pale and beautiful. There was something a little melancholy though in  their expressions as if they some how knew, or suspected, what fate had in store for them.

"Of course this was painted before your birth, or you would have been in it," the grand Duchess told him. "it was a few weeks after the painting was completed that they announced she was carrying you."

"You are most gracious and thoughtful," Edward told her.

"Well no doubt you wish to settle in to your new surroundings, I'll leave you to explore. Please feel free to go anywhere you like while you are here, and if you need anything, just call. Pull on this cord and a servant will come and attend you," she told him.

Edward thanked her again as she swept regally from the room leaving just the faintest impression of her having been there. Edward looked around the room, tried a couple of the chairs, looked at all the paintings, though he kept coming back to the portrait of his parents. Eventually he began to wonder where the bed was, it seemed a little strange to him that the room had no bed, perhaps he was supposed to sleep on one of the generous couches. He was trying a couch for comfort while thinking how strange royalty was when a door he had not been aware of opened and Chesterton's familiar figure entered.

"Ah Mr. Black, there you are. I have taken the liberty of putting myself in the gentleman's gentleman's room and Mr. Badger in the first companion's chamber, an arraignment I trust you find satisfactory?" he announced.

"Er, yes I'm sure Chesterton. You couldn't show me where the bed is in here could you?" asked Edward.

"The bed Sir?" Chesterton looked confused. "Yes, you know, where I'm to sleep if there's no handy cupboard."

"Ha ha, yes I see Mr. Black. I think maybe you are wanting to see the grand chamber which is through this way," Chesterton indicated the door he had just come through. "I have already unpacked your things ready for you."

"I have things?" asked Edward in surprise. 

"Indeed you do Mr. Black. You have shirts and britches, coats and boots, combs and brushes, shall I show them to you?" offered Chesterton.

"Please," replied Edward. He followed Chesterton thought to a smaller room which was dominated by a large four poster bed. A dresser stood by the window with Edward's toiletries neatly laid out, while a large wardrobe and chest of draws contained his clothing.

"Through this door is Mr. Badger's chamber, and through this one is mine, so that we may be of service to you at a moments notice. Captain Legate's rooms are across the corridor from your own, it is he who has suggested these arraignments will provide good security."

"Good security? I need security?" asked an amazed Edward.

"I really wouldn't know Mr. Black, I'm merely conveying Captain Legate's meditations on the matter," replied Chesterton.

"I think I should have a word with Captain Legate about that," said Edward ready to dash off and confront Legate in his rooms.

"Before you do so Sir, I have something for you, from the Duke of Northumberland," said Chesterton holding out a small wooden box about the size of a cigar case. Edward took it in his hands. It was made of highly polished wood and had the Imperial crest embossed on the lid. Edward opened it with curiosity.

Inside the box lay two small red leather bound books which at first glance looked identical. One had the words 'The Art of War' stamped in guilt foil on the cover, the other Edward couldn't read. Flicking through the second book he discovered the entire volume was written in some unfamiliar language. The box also contained two notes, one in English, the other in the unknown language. Edward read the former.

"My Dear Edward," wrote the Duke, "I have to return to England with much urgency to attend to business which I have too long neglected, for which I hope you will excuse me. I leave you with a small gift, these two books, both of which contain the same text, while one is in English the other is in the Imperial language and are the very books my father gave me to learn from. The other note is written in the Imperial Language and I expect you to tell me what it says on my return in a few months time. During my absence you can safely confide in your hosts and Captain Legate to whom I have entrusted your safety, and in whom I have complete confidence."

Edward put the note back in the box and placed it by the bedside. At that moment came a knock at the door, Chesterton went to answer it and it was Captain Legate.

"Ah Edward, settling in? I trust you got the note from your Uncle? And Chesterton has explained the room arrangements?" he asked.

"I understand your precautions," replied Edward, "but why do I need security?"

A grim look passed over Legate's face. "I was hoping your Uncle would have told you more," he said, "but I can see that for now you will have to make do with explanations from Isambard and myself. To be honest Edward your Uncle is the one who truly understands the political machinations of the English Court, but he conveyed to me the understanding that, should Victor III discover your whereabouts, you would be in grave danger. As I understand it Victor would be unable to send a significant force against you here in Holland, so he will undoubtedly use assassins. Your Uncle has also asked that I train you in the martial arts, sword, pistol and rife as well as bow and hand to hand combat."

"I see," said Edward, "did he say anything else?"

"He hopes you will concede to taking instruction from Isambard in matters of science and from the Grand Duchess in the finer arts of etiquette, dance, music and statesmanship," replied the Captain.

"It seems my new Uncle has thought of everything," replied Edward.

The next few months passed in a blur to Edward. In the mornings he and Robert trained with the Captain in the magnificently equipped gymnasium at the Van Hoakfen Manor. They learnt sword fighting with epe and foil as well as sabre and short sword, English bare fist boxing and a Chinese fighting style which the Captain called Kung Foo. It seemed Rob was better at these fighting styles than Edward, and while Edward put up a good fight, it was only a few weeks before Rob was able to give the Captain a run for his money.

In the Afternoons Edward attended with Isambard, if the old man was not too engrossed in some new mechanism or theory he was working on, or with Lady Cathrine who's gentle yet persuasive style quickly taught him the basics of the finer arts.

One afternoon a week or so after the Duke had departed Edward was taking his first dancing lesson with Lady Cathrine. She showed him the footwork and coached him in the basic steps.

"You know it would be useful for you to dance to music," said the grand Duchess thoughtfully, "I wonder who we have who could partner you while I play," she mused.

"What about Lady Carmine?" suggested Edward.

The grand Duchess looked a little worried at this idea. "She is very dangerous," she said simply.

"I think she will behave herself," said Edward. "Can we at least go and ask her?"

"Well I'm not sure, perhaps we should take Captain Legate with us," the grand Duchess suggested.

"I think he went out to inspect the fields with the grand Duke," said Edward. "Come on, where is she being held?"

"Her rooms are in the East wing, as far from yours as possible," said Lady Cathrine reluctantly.

"Well lets pay her a visit and see if she will help teach me to dance," said Edward.

With some reluctance the grand Duchess led him to the Lady Carmine's apartments. There was no additional security to Lady Carmine's rooms that Edward could see. He knew the grand Duchy maintained its own army, a modest one but well equipped and well trained non-the-less and the Manor house itself contained a small garrison. The main hallway and stairs always had a ceremonial guard on duty and for all their ceremony, their pistols and swords were real, modern and effective.

He knocked on Lady Carmine's door. A moment later the door was opened by the Lady herself.

"Hello Edward," she said.

Edward looked into her cool green eyes. "the grand Duchess and I were wondering if you might help me with my dancing." Edward said. "I'd be most grateful if you would."

"Arn't you afraid I might kill you?" she asked with her usual directness.

"Will you promise not to?" asked Edward. "Will you give your word as a Lady not to run away not to try and kill me?"

She appeared to think about it for a moment then, almost smiling, agreed with a slight nod of her head.

After that Edward's dancing began to improve rapidly. Twice a week Lady Carmine joined him  in the music salon, and while the grand Duchess played the piano, he held Lady Carmine in his arms and whirl her around the room. It was swiftly become the highlight of his week.

Edward's skills continued to develop as spring turned to summer, until late one fine day, the Duke of Northumberland returned from business in England, bringing grave news with him.


