Chapter 10 – A new world
A head poked through the hatch, immediately followed by the rest of MacArthur. He took a moment to mop his brow with a large white handkerchief.

"My, my tis most unconscionably hot in these parts, don't you think your Highness?" MacArthur took a seat and suddenly thinking said, "I may call you your Highness?"

"As you like," replied Edward. 

This was a great improvement over sitting in the desert and lots better than sweating over a hot Babbage engine. Edward thought he might as well make the most of it, before they realised they had the wrong person sent him back to the Dauntless to face charges.

"I've been talking to the Captain and we will be coming up on the A.S. Countess of Wetherby within three hours," MacArthur informed them.

"The Countess of Wetherby?" asked Edward.

"Your Uncle's airship. You're no doubt keen to meet him your Highness."

"Yes, yes I am," Edward replied. He had no idea who this Uncle of his was and held a suspicion that their meeting would signal the end of the pleasantries and the start of his return to normal life. Edward imagined he would be clapped in irons, so he was going to make the most of things and as the expression goes 'lord it up', after all these people currently thought him to be 'a lord'.

"You know, Mr. MacArthur, Rob and I are terrible hungry after our night in the desert, I don't suppose you have any victuals aboard perchance?" Edward said, in what he hoped was a passing impersonation of the way lords and Highnesses spoke.

"Of course, of course," MacArthur said, mopping at his brow again. "How thoughtless of me your Highness. Naturally you and your companion are famished from your sojourn in the night desert. I'll have something sent up from the galley straight away. I presume cold cuts, bread and fruits will suffice for now? I'm afraid we don't carry much by way of provisions on the Valiant, she's more built for speed and manoeuvrability than for comfort I'm afraid."

"Cold cuts will suffice Mr. MacArthur," replied Edward, trying the new word 'suffice' with relish and hoping he'd used it correctly. He was beginning to enjoy himself, and had to take a moment to remind himself that this was all going to come to a sudden, and probably painful, end. Still it would be all the better suffered with a fully belly.

The food arrived and the boys tucked in with relish. Used to the Spartan fare served aboard the Dauntless, stews and ships biscuits washed down with rum .The dish of meats on the table before them served with fresh crusty breads and a bowl of fruit were a veritable feast to both their eyes and their stomachs.

After an hour or so the boys were satiated and after another bottle of beer each they were overcome with drowsiness and began to nod off. Despite the excitement and novelty of his new position and the daunting prospect of its sudden end, Edward was unable to keep his eyes open a moment longer. The long night had taken its toll and the good food had done its job, the cushioned seats and gentle rocking of the airship gently lulled him and he found himself nodding off into a deep restful sleep.

Edward woke with a sudden start. The light in the cabin had grown dim as evening approached. Rob slept peacefully on in the chair next to him. The sailor who had earlier brought the food was conversing quietly with MacArthur, who, upon seeing Edward was awake, addressed him.

"Ah, your Highness, I trust you are feeling refreshed?" he asked.

Edward did indeed feel refreshed and said so.

"You might like to know then, that we are coming up on the Countess of Wetherby and should dock with her shortly. You can observe her from the cockpit if you wish." MacArthur told him.

Edward could see no reason to object to the suggestion and felt excited at the prospect. Rob began to stir to the sound of voices so Edward shook him awake and invited him along. The boys followed MacArthur along a narrow ship corridor and down steep gantry steps to the Valiant's helm, located in the forward cabin.

The Captain stood firmly next the wooden helm, hands clasped behind his back. The helmsman, resplendent in his white uniformed, held the Valiant on a steady course. The Captain turned and nodded to Edward as the three entered what had suddenly become a rather crowded cabin. In front of the helmsman a wide window gave a panoramic view of the sky ahead. It was a clear evening, the light still quite bright and the moon, a large silver piece, already risen off the port side.

Directly ahead of the Valiant Edward saw a grey cigar shape, about the size of his thumb, which he took to be the Wetherby. The grey smudge quickly grew and took shape and they seemed to be racing towards it at high speed. Edward began to fear a collision which to seemed inevitable. The Wetherby grew in size and Edward was suddenly shocked by a change  of perspective. With nothing in the sky to compare the size of the Wetherby to, Edward had imagined it was a little larger than the Valiant, but now the helm port was filled by the Wetherby’s starboard hull, and Edward realised the ship was not small and close, but  immensely huge, and still a way off.

From the Valiant Edward could see a white symbol painted on the side of the Wetherby's starboard hull, it appeared to be a stylised flower of some kind, a pimpernel perhaps, or a rose. The front ends of the Wetherby’s main and starboard hulls could now be seen joined by a complex weave of iron stanchions and cables, she was an extremely rare type of airship, tri-hulled and capable of incredible lifting power and stability. 

The Valiant sailed on toward the Wetherby, as they drew along side and slipped along the port hull the flower symbol appeared so large, only a portion of petal could be seen apparently drifting astern. Of course Edward had seen large airships before, at Tewkesbury, but the Wetherby was larger, much larger than even those, a veritable levantine of the sky which dwarfed the Valiant to such an extent that it came as no surprise when the entire airship entered a dock in the Wetherby's port hull, itself so large, another mooring tower was already occupied by a second ship of a similar size and class to the Valiant.

The Valiant glided gently to the free mooring tower and after a few moments clunked its mooring ball into the towers' gimbals. The port hull doors slid shut. There was a moment of darkness before the lighting came on along the entire length of the hanger. Edward was struck by the odd nature of the light in the hanger, but didn't have time to consider it further as MacArthur suggested they disembark swiftly, the Duke would be anxious to finally meet his nephew Edward.

While not keen for the adventure to come to an end, Edward could find no reason to delay things, so with a certain weight to his steps he followed MacArthur to a gangplank which led down to the hanger floor.  Here he found Lady Carmine calmly waiting, flanked on either side by two of the Valiant's sailors. She gave Edward a curt, bitter, smile and nodded politely.

"It looks like you've won your highness," she said.

Despite her circumstances, or perhaps because of them, Edward thought the deadly assassin looked particularly beautiful, long black tresses of hair flowing down her back, her slim lithe figure in a black, close fitting, outfit.

"It doesn't feel like a victory," Edward confessed. "I wish we could have met under better circumstances."

Lady Carmine snorted with derision, "I'm sure you do your highness."

"We really aught to be moving on," MacArthur said to Edward. "The Duke is waiting upon us."

"The Duke of Northumberland no doubt," Lady Carmine said, to which MacArthur gave her a look, but said nothing. 

"Who else would own a ship like this one?" she accused, but MacArthur strode off across the hanger and after one final look back at her, a tiny figure in black standing between two tall sailors, Edward followed MacArthur his footsteps ringing out on the hangar floor.

They came to a metal hull door which opened onto a canvas covered gantry. A chill wind rattled the stiff canvas which was secured to the gantry by rope. From time to time Edward could see the dark earth far below through gaps in the canvas. They came to a second door and entered the A.S. Wetherby's main deck.

Edward found himself standing in what looked like a guardroom or storage area. Wooden crates were stacked neatly against a wall and a corner was filled with barrels. A couple of the Wetherby's sailors sat at a table playing cards, a bottle of rum and a pile of small coins between them. They glanced up from their game as the little group entered before returning to their cards.

"If you would follow me please gentlemen," MacArthur asked the boys, leading them across the room and into another corridor, this one with polished wood boarding.  A few steps further and they entered a carpeted room. To Edward it was like stepping into another world. One moment he'd been walking down a narrow airship corridor, the vast grey side of the hull forming one wall, the next he was in the most sumptuous and elegant room he'd ever seen. A thick red carpet covered the floor, at it's centre an image familiar enough to send a shiver up Edward's spine, an Imperial crest. The walls of the room were panelled in oak. An ornate chandelier hung from the centre of the ceiling casting a warm light. Against one wall stood a long table with chairs arranged along it. Behind the table a length of panelling with brass gauges and meters mounted on it.

MacArthur led the boys to the end of the room where high backed red leather chairs and a couch stood. The door at the end of the room opened and a man in a white collarless shirt, wearing a black tail coat and dark trousers entered, carrying before him a silver tray with several goblets and two tall jugs. 

"Gentlemen, Mr. MacArthur," the man addressed them as he placed the tray on a low table next to the couch. "His Lordship thought you might welcome some light refreshment after your voyage. Perhaps you would care to take a little hot coffee or chocolate?"

"I think I'll try the chocolate," Edward said. He'd never had chocolate as a drink before. The man poured warm brown frothy liquid into one of the goblets and offered it to Edward who took it gratefully and sipped.

The door opened again and a large imposing figure of a man in his early forties with dark flowing hair and a neat black beard, entered the room. He wore black riding boots, black jodhpurs and a large white shirt over which he wore a dark green embroidered jacket in silk. The room filled with his presence as he strode purposefully towards the group.

"Thank you Chesterton, that will be all," he dismissed the butler with a nod, then standing back appraised the boys while MacArthur stood silently by. After a while he smiled and said to Edward, "you must be Edward, and this is your companion Robert."

"Indeed your Lordship," MacArthur confirmed.

His Grace, Guy Lord Buckingham, Duke of Northumberland, brother of Consort Queen Elisabeth herself smiled broadly and stepping forward embraced Edward. "Welcome back," he said, "welcome home. My you have your father's look about you indeed."

Edward was astonished. He felt as if he'd passed some kind of test, without knowing what the test was, yet it seemed the Duke recognised him.

"MacArthur," the Duke addressed him, "would you show Mr. Badger his rooms?"

"Your Grace," MacArthur nodded his assent. "Mr. Badger," he led Rob off through a door at the end of the room.

"If we could have a few words in my study," the Duke said as he led Edward down a carpeted corridor to another room. The Duke's study was lined with bookshelves. A small elegant walnut bureaux with inlaid pearl stood against one wall. Edward could see his ring and letter sitting on the leather covered surface of the table. The Duke invited him to sit on a leather covered chair taking the seat opposite.

"Cigarette?" the Duke offered, holding out a silver cigarette case. Edward declined.

"But you don't mind if I do?" the Duke took one of his own cigarette's and lit it. The rich pungent smell of Turkish tobacco filled the air as he drew casually on the smoke and stared thoughtfully at the books behind Edward. Eventually he spoke.

"I suppose all this has come as something of a shock to you. Am I correct in thinking, that don't know the significance of your ring?" the Duke cast a glance in the direction of the bureaux.

"No Sir, I do not," replied Edward. "Until Lady Augustus took me from Fort Arthur I had no idea."

"And all this time you've believed yourself to be an orphan?" asked the Duke.

"Yes, and I'm not sure I'm not an orphan now," he confessed, this is it, thought Edward, the ride is over. But instead of confirming his fears, the Duke continued on a new tack.

"Do you recall any visitors to you at the Orphanage?" he asked.

Edward thought a moment. Visitors to the Orphanage were rare and most of them were business callers for Sniderby. There were the Directors of course and besides their annual inspection there was one director, Lord Apethorpe, who particularly stood out for Edward, not withstanding that he had seemed to rather take to Edward, but he had also been the bearer of the ring.

Edward recounted, "there was a director, a Lord Apethorpe I think," said Edward thoughtfully. "He came to see us all, three or four times a year, but once, when I was about ten years old he took me alone into Sniderby's office, that was when he gave me the ring and the letter and told me they had been left by my Mother when I was abandoned."

"Did he say anything else?" asked the Duke.

"He said I should keep the ring a secret," replied Edward.

"I see," the Duke blew a pale blue ring of smoke into the air. "Can you remember anything more?"

Edward frowned with the effort of drawing the distant childhood memories to mind. There had been something else, what had it been? He concentrated for all he was worth, then, suddenly it came flooding back to him and once again he was the ten year old Edward standing in Sniderby's study which smelt of Sniderby's sweat, and the kindly dark haired man was talking to Edward.

Lord Apethorpe took the ring from his pocket and held it out to the boy.

"Take it," he said, "this ring belongs to you and it's time you had it, but be careful, keep it well hidden."

Edward reached out and took the heavy ring with its distinctive pattern and held it.

"Your mother left it for you along with this note," Apethorpe gave Edward the strange letter. "I would keep them in this pouch if I was you," and Apethorpe handed Edward the leather pouch which he'd faithfully kept the ring in ever since.

"Now I want you to do something for me," Apethorpe asked Edward. "I want you to memorise a little poem for me, can you do that?" 

Ten year old Edward was sure he could.

"The following year he asked me to repeat the poem to him," Edward told the Duke.

"And did you?"

"Yes. He never asked again," I'd almost completely forgotten, Edward confessed.

"And you can remember the poem now?" the Duke asked leaning forward in his chair. A certain eagerness in his demeanour.

"I think so," said Edward.

The Duke looked at him with anticipation. Edward felt a little embarrassed, unused to public performance as he was. He took a moment to compose himself.

"It doesn't have a title, at least I don't think it does," said Edward and then he recited,

"The knight he saw her standing there
wind's fingers playing in her hair
and all at once he was in love
and knew he had her hand to have

to world's end for her, he would go
mountain, forest, desert, snow
paths long and winding, near and far
to make her his true western star

and now his love for her she saw
hearts compass pointing to all four
so giving him her one true word
they marry 'neath the eastern sword"

"It's not much of a poem," Edward admitted, but the Duke beamed at him. 

"Not much as poems go, yes, but certain proof that you are the Infante, it's exquisite my boy, as you are about to learn," the Duke leapt up energetically and crossed the room to the desk. Picking up the ring and the letter he returned to his chair and gave Edward his ring back.

"You should wear it now my boy, it is the Infante's ring. Wear it on your right hand," the Duke instructed. "I will read your mother's letter, but first, for her sake, let me tell you something about the things that happened which led you mother to abandon you."

Edward placed the ring on his middle finger and making a fist looked down at it glinting in the light.

"My apologies, I was unable to say this earlier, but I had to be sure. Of course you look remarkable like your father, but then it would not be so difficult to find some who did, however, the poem, only you and dear Philip knew the poem. He wrote it just for you and until recently you were the only other person in the world to have heard it. It is most saddening that I have had to come to know it also, under unpleasant circumstances which I will endevour to explain."

Edward waited patiently for the Duke to continue.

"It's a long story, and I'm sure you'll have many questions afterwards, but let me start at the beginning. You were born the first son of Richard and Elizabeth York. Richard took his middle name, Victor, at his coronation and became Victor the second Emperor of the British Empire and her sovereign states. For almost five years Victor the Second reigned happily and wisely, but then, within months of your birth, a terrible tragedy befell both the nation and your family. Your father was struck down by a fatal disease to which he swiftly succumbed. We were all distraught, your mother particularly so, and the nation took to morning a deep felt loss. It wasn't until latter we became suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Victor's death."

"Your uncle Henry stood by your mother throughout her grief giving her great comfort and succour. In due course, your father's brother, Henry, was appointed Prince Regent in ex-paretis, that is to say, appointed king until the day you were old enough to take your rightful place on the throne, at the age of twenty one. In her grief your mother had married your uncle and in due course they had a child together, Harold. Soon after Harold's birth, Henry began  makeing moves in Parliament to secure a stronger position for himself in Government, seeking to make himself true Emperor."

"There were those who opposed your uncle's ambition, who supported the memory of your father, and your rightful inheritance, British Emperor. At first they acted each according to their own feelings on the matter, but those who spoke out against your uncle soon suffered inexplicable accidents and misfortune, a run away horse took poor Lord Chatham, Lord and Lady Minster-St-John were both killed in the same hunting accident, and there were others. Over time those who support your cause were forced to meet in secret. No longer voicing there opposition in the Upper House or the newspapers. Over time they became a secret society, a league who's task was to see you installed as Emperor. It was known as the League of the White Rose."

"At the time there were several 'incidents' surrounding your safety, I will not detail them now, but those opposed to your uncle's ambitions voiced their concerns to your mother about your safety. It took no little persuasion, but eventually they were able to convince her to send you to the countryside, to the Lake District, where it was felt you could be better protected from your uncle. Unfortunately this was not to be the case and one terrible night a conflagration took the manor house where you and and your nurse were staying. Luckily, you were not in your bed as usual, but still out with your nurse, and become lost in nearby woods where you had been playing. It was clear that as long as your uncle thought you to be alive you would be at risk, so the League used the accident to lead Henry to think you had been killed in the fire. In reality you were taken by a trusted friend, a cousin of your mother's, Philip Augustus Baronet of Appethorpe. We entrusted your safety entirely to him."

"The night of the fire I made haste in an airship from my country seat in Northumberland to the Lake District and took you and your nurse aboard the Valiant. Later I put you in Philips arms myself and until today, never saw you nor knew where you were. Recent events however have brought this matter to a head once more, with the unfortunate death of Lord Apethorpe."

"I now know what Philip did. While his sympathies with the league were not widely known he felt it wise to hide you away rather than have you in his own home, this ploy, as it so happens, turns out to have been a wise idea, and he placed you in Blacksteel Orphanage. As a director of Blacksteel as well as several other Orphanages, he was able to both keep an eye on you and at the same time, felt he was far enough removed to prevent suspicion."

"As you know this plan successfully hid you from Henry's eyes for over ten years. Over the years the league lost several supporters to Henry's machinations, any one of whom might have been your host, were it not for Philip. A few months ago however Philip himself was killed, suddenly and unexpectedly, we fear Henry had a hand in his death also."

"We were frantic, Philip was our only contact with you and with his death your mother and I knew not what had become of you, if you were dead or alive. However, a week after Philip's funeral I received a letter from a small firm of solicitors in London Smith, Cradock and Lentz. It was hand delivered, as instructed, and as instructed, delivered in the eventuality of Philips death."

"At first the letter seemed innocuous, it was some time before we realised it held a cryptic message, one intended for myself or your mother. Following the clues in the letter I was able to track you to Blacksteel, but when I arrived you had already gone, and worse, an Imperial Agent was hot on your heals, the Lady Augustus, Philip's own daughter."

"Since then we have been following your trail, and hers. Knowing there was a good chance she could get to you first we planned to intercept her should she find you. Once we knew she'd taken you from Fort Arthur we sabotaged her airship, bringing it down in the Texan desert, and you know the rest of the story."

He fingered the letter he held in his hand. "This letter from your mother, is written in her hand, in the Imperial language spoken only by those close to the Emperor. As brother to the queen I have been schooled in the language, and in due course, so will you, but for now, permit me to read it to you."

"My Dearest Darling Edward, It is with the greatest of sadnesses and the heaviest of hearts that I find myself in such a miserable state as to be writing these words to you, my dearest son. Fortune has abandon us, and I have made a terrible mistake, but one I can not now change, thought I would give my life even to do so, if I thought it to make the difference, but I am a feared it will not and now I must undertake the hardest task of my life, to entrust you to the care of someone else. How I wish it were not be so. Do not think I have abandoned you, for you are first and foremost in my thoughts and in my heart, each and every moment of each and every day. I beg only that you can find it in your heart to forgive me and to know that I would but have had it any other way than this, if there were but a single other choice. As it is, I must loose you one way or another, and this way at least I hope in my heart of hearts that we shall one day be together again. Your mother Elisabeth York, Queen of England."

The Duke of Northumberland sat back in his chair. "It's good to see you safe again my boy," he smiled at Edward. "I'm sure you have many questions, but the hour grows late and you must be weary after your adventures. Tomorrow we head for a safe haven in Holland and there will be plenty of time on our journey through the clouds to answer any questions you have."

Guy Northumberland pressed a small button inlaid into the the arm of the chair and a moment later Chesterton appeared behind Edward, through a concealed door.

"Would you show His Highness to his suite please Chesterton," asked the Duke.

"Why certainly Sir. If you would follow me my lord," the latter request addressed to Edward.

He did feel tired, and Sir Guy's story left him with much to think about. Chesterton led Edward along a corridor to a door with a familiar crest on it. "The Duke's room are opposite yours," Chesterton informed Edward before showing him the sumptuous apartments he was to occupy whilst aboard the Wetherby.

Edward was awestruck by the richness and refinement of his new accommodation. "This is fit for a king," he said to Chesterton.

"Indeed Sir," the servant replied.
