
The League of the White Rose


A novel by L.D.Tennant


Draft 04 – 04/13


First published in Great Britain by Icepalms 2013
This electronic edition published in March 2013 by Icepalms
Distributed in PDF Arial/12pt electronic format from OpenOffice, layout by Icepalms
PDF version £3.99
Print Version £7.99

Copyright © L D Tennant 2013

The moral right of the author has been asserted.

All characters and events in this publication, other than those clearly in the public domain are fictitious and any resemblance to real persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.

All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrievable system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published and without similar condition including this condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.

ISBN applied for.


This Book is dedicated to the memory of Adam Tennant

The Author would like to thank all those involved in helping make this book a reality. In particular for their sterling contributions and without who's support I could not have done it, I would particularly like to thank 

Edited by: 

Cover designed by: 

Http://leagueofthewhiterose.icepalms.eu
Icepalms Publishing
21 Guildford Rd
Brighton BN1 3LW



Chapter 1 – The golden dragonfly
Whoosh! Clonk! The massive brass steam engine churned with a mighty hiss. Edward could hear a loud clanking noise from the engine as the main piston, larger than a man's head, shot back and forth, passing inches from his ear. He could tell from the noise that something was terribly wrong. The engine shouldn't sound that way. He listened as hot metal groaned and stretched under enormous pressure, followed by a sinister pop, whiz, clunk which he hoped wasn't, but probably was, a rivet popping. A violent hissing filled the engine room with steam. Black rivulets of condensed water ran down the dark stone walls and from the iron beams which supported the roof.

Edward realised he had to close off the main boiler valve, or the engine would blow, and in the confined space of the engine room he would undoubtedly be killed. Edward groped his way through a hot, fog filled, room, burning his exposed knuckles as he scrapped them on searingly hot pipes. The power wheel, which drove the belt for the mill, began rattling on its axle and the engine screamed as metal stretched to its limit under the pressure.

His fingers, numb from the heat, found the main valve and he turned it. The valve was far more resistant than it should have been. Edward put all his might into forcing the valve to move, but it was stuck fast. He searched desperately for something which would give him leverage. He spotted an iron bar leaning against the damp stone wall. Heaving the heavy metal rod in both arms Edward dropped it through the iron spokes of the valve and leant against the bar with every ounce of his strength. It resisted monetarily, then, with a loud crack, the wheel broke.

As the engine squealed, rivets popping hysterically, Edward ran for the door but it resisted his efforts to force it open. Trapped in desperation he shouted and banged on the solid wood, but knew it was no use, no one would hear him over the noise of the engine. He stumbled back towards the malevolent machine. If he could climb the gantry and crawl to the wheel release then the engine would no longer strain against the power wheel and should spin freely. He climbed the iron ladder which hung from the gantry, the rags he'd wrapped round his hands barely managing to keep the heat from searing his flesh. With the sound of tortured metal snapping, the gantry mountings broke and Edward was almost thrown off the ladder. He grasped blindly and gained a grip on the edge of the walkway which allowed engineers access to upper parts of the engine. With the gantry swinging dangerously above the hot shaking machine, Edward crawled on his hands and knees, slowly making his way towards the wheel release lever. He grasped the brass knob which topped the lever and gave it a tug. The lever clicked over, the engine gave a shudder and the power wheel ran free.

Energy flowed from the engine into the fly-wheel and it picked up speed, Edward wondered why then, was the boiler still supplying steam? he began the dangerous journey back along the gantry. The engine no longer sounded as angry as it had. He was sure, now the mill had lost power, someone would quickly come and investigate. They didn't like power outages at the mill, it interrupted production. He safely reached the ground and made his way over to the door. He gave it a good push but it wasn't budging, perhaps the wood had swollen with the steam, whatever, it was jammed shut. He heard muffled shouts and the sound hobnail boots running outside the engine room. Someone tried to open the door and swore. More shouting followed while Edward kept his eyes on the steam engine. The power wheel was spinning so quickly he couldn't see the huge iron spokes any more, they appeared as a solid disc of metal. Friction was causing the axial to heat up, already a dim orange glow was beginning to spread along the crucial rod.

Suddenly the sound of of wood splintering came from behind Edward. Someone was attacking the door with a big heavy object. Edward made sure he was clear of the doorway and a moment later it came crashing down. Four men in rough blue shirts with red kerchiefs tied round their necks and flat caps on their heads rushed into to the engine room.

"Quick, get out," Edward called, as he ran through the doorway and into the blessed relief of cold, fresh, air. His rescuers following a moment later.

One of the men grabbed Edward. "Did you shut off the main valve?" he asked urgently.

Edward shook his head and still coughing from the steam managed to say, "It stuck, it's broken."

"The boiler, shut down the boiler!" the engineer shouted, while placing a reassuring hand on Edward's shoulder. "Come on son, let's get you out of here." He led Edward across the yard to the warehouse door, where the mill workers were beginning to gather, watching the event. Edward sat, his legs dangling from the edge of the loading bay, his lungs still aching. He watched the steam pour from the engine room and heard the final strained screams and hisses of the dying engine.

As he watched, an almighty bang came from the engine room and part of the roof lifted clean off and came crashing to the ground, this set the mill girls screaming and crying.

"What's all this then?" a loud voice boomed across the yard. "Lets not have you all standing around gawking. Back into the sheds, there's work to be done," Mr Sniderby, the orphanage director shouted at the excited boys and girls.

"But the belt's stopped," a girl cried out.

"Never mind yourself about that Doris Perkins, get back in that shed the lot of you." Mr. Sniderby, his fat face red with anger, was not to be argued with. His sausage like finger pointing firmly at the shed door. Sniderby tapped his thick walking stick against the edge of his boot, a sinister gesture, indicating his boot might not be the only thing which could feel the sting of his stick. The mill workers ran back into the shed, only to turn and watch from the relative safety of the doorway.

Though not a cruel man, Sniderby was feared by the orphans for his quick temper and sharp eye. Any hint of disruption to productivity and and an unfortunate child would feel the wack of his stick across their back. Sniderby didn't tolerate excuses, slacking, joshing, talking, sickness, joking or laughter. He felt orphans should keep their minds on their work and he made sure they did.

"You, boy, Edward Blacksteel. What have you done?" Sniderby shouted at Edward as he strode across the yard. "You're responsible for the engine."

"Sir," Edward coughed. "Sir, it wasn't my fault, the main valve jammed."

"We'll see about it not being your fault boy. Do you know how long that engine will take to fix? Do you realise what that will do to mill production? We're not made of money boy, this is an orphanage, we have to make our own way in this world."

Edward just nodded, accepting The Director's unjust anger. There was nothing to be done unless he fancied a beating from Sniderby's stick. The engineers were good men, but they wouldn't interfere if Sniderby decided to beat him, it was more than their jobs were worth.

Sniderby was interrupted by a further explosion coming from the engine shed and he strode off in the direction of the boiler shouting. "Get that boiler stopped it's going to bring the place down around our ears."

Edward was grateful for the distraction, though he knew Sniderby wouldn't forget, for now he just needed to concentrate on breathing and resting his aching limbs. His knuckles stung and there were small red weals on the back of his fingers from the burns he'd received in the engine room.

"Are you all right?" a gentle voice asked him. Edward turned and looked up at the face of his friend and fellow orphan Anna. Crystal blue eyes, filled with concern, gazed at him. She pushed back a lock of auburn hair which had escaped from under her bonnet and crouched down next to him.

"You don't sound so good," she said, listening to him breath.

"I'll be fine in a bit, it's nothing really," he said.

"Let me get you something to drink," Anna offered. A moment later she returned with a tin cup filled with cool clear water. "There you go," she handed him the cup and he drank gratefully.

"You should lie down for a while," she told him.

"I can't," Edward said. "Sniderby thinks I'm responsible for the accident and he'll be wanting to take it out on me."

"Oh, he can't," Anna protested. But they both knew he could.

"You'd better get inside, Sniderby's coming back," Edward told her as he saw the plump, tweed clad figure, in his one size too small bowler hat, coming from the boiler shed.

Sniderby loomed over Edward who suddenly felt very tired and worn. Sniderby glowered down at the boy while his chubby fingers strummed on the stick.

"You're lucky boy," Sniderby said eventually. "The engineers that rescued you say the main valve was snapped clean off and the engine room door jammed shut. Well it's going to be weeks before the engine is repaired so you'll be looking after the tread-wheel donkeys 'til we  get our hands on a portable engine. Just be glad you didn't blow the boiler as well," Sniderby told him. "Well, don't lay about boy, get back to work." and with that the Director strode off back to his office to bark at his assistants.

As he sat on the cold stone loading bay, his head still ringing Edward's gaze lifted over the high brick walls of the orphanage and the sky above, which, to him, looked like a vast inverted map of a world he was prevented from ever visiting. As he gazed upward something caught his eye, a brief glint, a tiny golden flake of sparkling light which fell from a particularly dark cloud. He strained to see if it would happen again, and there it was, a glimmer in the air, and it seemed to grow closer. He thought he saw something falling towards him.

The mysterious object continued to descend in wide looping curves not unlike a golden leaf falling from an autumn bough, and all the while Edward hoped, no he wished, it would fall into the orphanage. His wish was to be granted as the strange thing fell lower and lower and all the while seemed to circle Edward himself until it hovered in the still air, just a foot or two above his blond head. The thing was now so close Edward could see it in detail. It appeared to be a dragonfly with a long jointed body, its wings buzzing so quickly they seemed to be smears of elfin gold. The golden dragonfly darted back and forth before him, dropped to eye level and turned as if to look directly at him.

Tentatively, Edward held his hand out to it, perhaps it needed somewhere to rest a moment. He had never seen such a beautiful thing in his life, its fairy dance quite mesmerised him. The golden dragonfly darted back and forth once more, then came to hover over his open palm, and now he could see it in exquisite detail, each segment of its body, and the wire-like legs which hung from its thorax. It came lower, the legs tickling Edward's palm, then it did something unexpected. The last two segments of body hinged upward and a tiny cylinder slid out and fell on to Edward's hand. The moment it had done this the dragonfly darted upwards and flew off over the high wall.

Edward looked down at his hand, and what the dragonfly had delivered. No longer constrained by the dragonfly's body a tiny half-inch cylinder started to unroll. With great care Edward took it and stretched it out into a strip of paper with a message on it, and its words both startled and shocked Edward, not least because the first words of the message were his name. 'Edward Blacksteel: Your life is in great danger. Leave now!'

That night lying in bed his body aching, Edward thought about all the strange things which had happened over the last few weeks all seemingly separate yet now somehow connected. First, several weeks ago, he'd been walking to the mill shed, when a brick fell from the roof and missed him by only a foot. At the time he'd given it no further thought. If it had hit him it would most certainly have killed him, or at least left him severely injured, but it had missed. Everyone knew Sniderby didn't keep the orphanage in the best of upkeep. But now he thought he might take a closer look at the roof in the morning, too see just how loose the bricks really were.

Then there had been the accident that killed poor Henry Blacksteel, who along with Anna, was Edward's longest and closest friend. They were about the same age, arriving at the orphanage within a few weeks of each other. As with Edward, Henry was a foundling and as such was given the name of the orphanage as his sire-name, Blacksteel Orphanage, named for the town that supported it, Blacksteel in the West Yorkshire Ridings. The loom which Henry had been working that fateful day had shaken loose in it's moorings just as Henry went to retrieve the shuttle and the machines' jaws had closed on him, crushing his chest and killing him instantly.

Other things began to bother Edward. There was the loose bolt on the engine room gantry, luckily he'd spotted and fixed it before it became really dangerous. Then there was the grease spillage on the high walkway only last week, right where Edward normally stood to operate the power wheel level. None of these things were, in themselves, particularly suspicious but put all together, with today's events... If he was right, who could he tell? Someone was trying to kill him? Was he the only one in danger? He should tell Anna about his fears certainly, but who else? Not Sniderby that was for sure. He could speak to the engineers but he didn't think they'd believe him.

Unable to sleep with these thoughts tumbling in his mind Edward crept from the dormitory in his stocking feet, boots in hand. He was hungry, having felt too sick to eat earlier and he'd missed supper which comprised of bread and beef dripping with a handful of dried fruit, not exactly the fare they ate up at the Manor, but right now, he'd be grateful for anything. He hoped someone was still in the kitchen, Mrs. Chubjoy, if he was lucky, she was kindly and nice, loved by the orphans and known to give small gifts of extra food and clothing to the most needy children, when Sniderby wasn't looking of course. Edward knew if there was no one in the kitchen it would be locked and he'd be hungry all night.

As he tiptoed along the corridor to the stairs he noticed a chink of light come from under Sniderby's door and heard the low rumble of voices deep in conversation. Who could be visiting Sniderby in his rooms at this time of night? he crept passed the stairs and tiptoed up as close as he dared to Sniderby's office.

He heard two male voices, one of them unmistakably Sniderby, the other he didn't recognise. Sniderby laughed, startling Edward and making him drop a boot. Fortunately the occupants of the room didn't hear the thump as it fell to the floor. Edward carefully picked up his boot and continued to listen.

The voice which he didn't recognise was saying something about an imperial agent, and something about the local magistrate. It seemed the imperial agent didn't trust the local magistrate and he'd asked the owner of the mysterious voice to do something for him. It was unclear what, but Edward had a suspicion.

He tried to hear more but the voices fell low, then he heard Sniderby say, "Don't you worry about that idiot constable. Let the imperial agent look after that side of things. You know what you have to do."

Edward heard chairs drawn across the floor and guessed Sniderby's guest was rising to leave.

"Make sure of it," the other voice said, getting louder as he came closer to the door.

"You just do your job, if you'd got it right in the first place there'd be no need for the constable to be poking his nose in anyway."

Edward heard a foot scrape on the other side of the door and not having time to get back to the dormitory he scurried to the top of the stairs. Sniderby's door opened and Edward was forced down the stairs to the floor below where he stood in the shadows and prayed the mysterious visitor would pass on down without looking his way. He heard Sniderby's door close and foot steps on the stairs. Edward pressed himself against the wall making himself as flat as possible. A shadow fell on the bare wooden boards in the stairwell, followed by a figure who wore a work shirt, a red kerchief and a flat cap. One of the engineers Edward thought.

The man continued down the stairs and past the dark corridor along which Edward hid. That he was an engineer Edward was now certain, but from behind, he couldn't tell who. All thoughts of hunger went from his mind. None of it made sense but there didn't seem to be any other explanation. He had to warn Anna and he had to escape the orphanage, not an easy task, the orphanage did not like to see it's little workers walk out the gates before they were sixteen, after which it couldn't get rid of them quick enough. As a ward of the orphanage who's age was uncertain, Edward wasn't due to leave  for almost a year, his official birthday being the day he had been brought to the gates.

He had tell Anna about the dragonfly message and the conversation he had overheard. Could he afford to wait till morning? Could he sneak into the girls dormitory undetected? Probably not, he'd never been in their dormitory and didn't know which bed was Anna's. He'd have to wake the girls up and ask them and then Mrs. Thackery would be disturbed and she'd catch him. He didn't know what the punishment for being in the girls dormitory was, but it would be severe and if it involved a stay in the orphanage correction house it could leave him vulnerable. No he'd have to wait until tomorrow to warn Anna. It would give him time to plan and prepare for his escape.

He decided to go back to his bed and try to get some rest and plan as best he could for what was to come.
Chapter 2 – Escape from Blacksteel
Feeling beaten and bruised from the previous day's accident, Edward sat on the long wooden refectory bench in front of the long wooden table with the other Orphans, sitting in order by age, the youngest at one end, the eldest at the other. Edward sat at the end of his bench with Anna opposite him. At the far end of the table the youngest could barely contained their hunger, scraping spoons around empty bowls in sympathy with the groans of hunger from their little empty bellies.

Once grace had been said, the orphans on serving duty began their rounds, slopping watery porridge into wooden bowls and passing the meagre fare up the table. Soon the large brick room was full of the sound of wooden spoon on wooden bowl and the grateful mews of orphans with something at last in their stomachs.

Edward had know Anna as long as he could remember.  He knew well her pretty brown hair loosely tied with a ribbon, her gentle bubbling laughter, her care and concern for the younger children, and her generosity with the few possessions she had. She was his greatest confidant and his oldest friend.

"Anna, Anna," Edward hissed across the table. "I need to talk to you after breakfast. I'll come and see you at the mill."

"I'm in shed three today," she hissed back before returning her attention to her bowl.

After breakfast Edward loitered in the work-yard, near shed number three, until the coast seemed clear then he slipped through a snicket door cut into one of the larger main doors of the shed. The shed was unusually quiet. Normally the sound of the looms working was near deafening, with the click clack of running shuttles, and the shoink shoink of the frames as they past weft and warp threads. Today the room was almost silent, except, in the far corner behind the looms, he could hear the muffled voices of idle loom workers.

Edward sneaked a peek round the corner of a loom with a half finished swath still held in its thread lined jaws and saw Mrs. Thackery ordering the girls to sweep the floor and polish shuttles.

Mrs. Thackery was liked no better than Mr. Sniderby. Where he used the stick, she used her tongue and ruled the sheds with a cold heart. Unlike Sniderby she was cruel and took a perverse pleasure in dishing out humiliating and painful tasks to any girl who got on the wrong side of her. How often she had one of her wards in tears with fingers bleeding from scrubbing the floor or threading looms.

"There's no excuse for slackness just because the mill isn't powered. This isn't a day off you know." She told the girls. "It's a good opportunity to get this shed spick and span. I don't want to find one loose thread on this floor." The girls ran about their pointless tasks and began brushing and scrubbing the floor while Mrs. Thackery looked on, her large arms folded sternly across her ample bosom, her tiny glasses perched on the end of her sharp nose, her beady greedy eyes peeking over the tops of the sharp lenses.

Edward caught Anna's eye as she set to, scrubbing a spotless patch of board, he waived her over toward a secluded window. Pushing her bucket and scrubbing as she went Anna made her way across the room.

"I've got to get out of here," he whispered through the window. "Tonight. I need to escape the Orphanage tonight. And I've come to warn you."

"What about? Why? You can't get out, they lock the gates at night. You'll be for it if they catch you trying. Where will you go?" asked Anna.

"You wont believe me if I tell you, but I think I'm in danger, maybe you are too," insisted Edward. "I don't think yesterday was an accident, someone's trying to kill me."

"How do you know?" asked Anna, "You must be wrong, it can't be."

"I, I have receive a warning, and I know something strange is going on, I overheard Sniderby talking to one of engineers about an Imperial Agent being sent here."

"An Imperial Agent?" hissed Anna. "Are you sure you're all-right, you had a terrible accident yesterday. Did you bang your head?"

"I'm fine. Its not my head. I came to warn you and tell you I'm leaving tonight." Edward replied. "I'm going to scout around and see how I might get out."

"Where will you go? You haven't any money," asked Anna.

"I don't know, I'll find somewhere," replied Edward.

"You don't know anywhere except this place. You probably don't even know the streets around here," insisted Anna.

"I've got to go, there are too many things, don't you think it a bit suspicious, about Henry's death? and then yesterday. I was trapped in the engine room Anna, someone trapped me in there and blocked the main valve. That was no accident I'm sure. I'm sure the Imperial Agent put one of the engineers up to it."

"You still don't have anywhere to go," Anna pointed out.

"I don't know, I might have somewhere, I'm not sure," said Edward fingering the small leather pouch he always wore on a string around his neck.

Anna noticed his gesture. "That ring and old note don't have an address on them," she pointed out.

"I think the local Magistrate might help me," said Edward.

"Now why would he do that?" asked Anna.

"It was something I overheard, something about the Agent not trusting the Magistrate so I think the Magistrate might know something. He might be able to help," Edward reasoned.

"I can't come with you Edward, it's far too dangerous," said Anna. "I don't know what I'd do."

"I'm not asking you to come with me. Just be on the lookout for yourself. I think there is danger here too."

Over Anna's shoulder Edward saw Mrs. Thackery approach, "Thackery's coming over, I'm off." He gave Anna a quick kiss on the cheek and slipped away from the window just as Mrs. Thackery, with a voice like a giant crow, cawed behind him. "Now then Anna Blacksteel, that'll be the cleanest corner of the mill, now make the rest of it the same. There can't be anything out there as is more interesting than here."

Edward walked slowly across the yard towards the ruins of the engine shed. The door lay where it had been thrown on the floor and cold grey daylight poured in through a hole blasted in the roof. The power wheel had come free of its fittings and lay twisted at an angle between the engine and the cold stone wall.

"There you are boy." Edward heard Sniderby's voice across the yard and turned to see the man striding towards him. "I've been looking for you. The donkeys and the tread wheel assembly are arriving, get down to the gatehouse and wait there."

"Yes Sir," Edward said as he trotted off towards the gatehouse at the far end of the yard.

"And I don't want you poking round in the engine shed again either," Sniderby called after him.

At the gatehouse there was no sign of the donkeys which gave Edward time to start looking around. He knew of the day gatekeeper, a broad surly man, Braithwaite, with a bad temper, known mostly for leaning out of the gatehouse window and shouting at the Orphans to get away from the gate.

Braithwaite spotted Edward and put his head out of the window. "Oy you, get away from those gates, your not allowed." He bellowed at Edward who trotted over to the window.

"Please, Mr. Braithwaite Sir, Mr. Sniderby told me to come and wait here for the donkeys Sir," said Edward.

"Did he now," Braithwaite grumbled into his beard scratching his head just under the grimy band of his official hat with an even grimier finger then he straightened his dark blue jacket and said "We'll see about that. You'd better not be lying to me boy."

"No Sir, Please Sir, Mr. Sniderby told me too," he pleaded.

"Very well, but I'll be asking Mr. Sniderby when I see him, which will be soon. I don't suppose he'll be wanting to wait long for his donkeys," Braithwaite hypothesised.

"No Sir. Thank you Mr. Braithwaite Sir," Edward said standing smartly by the window as if poised to escort a donkey at a moments notice.

The two waited a minute the one leaning casually on his window ledge, the other at attention and attentive of the gate then without a word Braithwaite stepped back and pulled the window half shut. Through the gap Edward could see him take a chair in the simple room and he picked up a mug of something warm. Outside in the yard a cold wind blew tugging at the loose legs of Edward's tattered trousers. He wrapped the strip of old blanket he used as a scarf tighter round his neck and pulled up the collar of his woollen jacket as far as it would go. Pulling the thin blue cotton cap down further he pushed his hands into his pockets. Every so often he had to dance from foot to foot and blow on his fingers to keep them warm and when he did this, Braithwaite looked up from his mug, then back down.

Eventually Edward heard the clatter of hoof on stone as the donkeys came up the road. Braithwaite was suddenly all action, straightening his hat and brushing imaginary dust, and none of the very real grease, from his jacket. Edward saw him turn and take a metal ring from a hook on the wall, a large key hung from the ring.

The donkeys were pressing against the gate making it shift and groan before the drover realised his donkeys could continue no further, he then pushed through the crowd of short haired four legged beasts and began shouting through the gate.

"You want these donkeys or what? I've not wasted my time driving these brutes up here for nothing, I want paying whether you take them or not" shouted the Drover.

"Now don't you worry yourself none." Braithwaite shouted back as he strutted out of the gatehouse. "We want those donkeys and you'll be allowed in, in the proper fashion, we have ways of doing thing here Mr." he said lifting the heavy iron flap which covered the lock and pushd the large key into the keyhole. The key turned with a hefty clunk. Braithwaite bent to lift the gate latch securing the left gate to the ground and the eager donkeys pressed on the right gate swinging it open and almost knocking Brathwaite down.

"Now look here," he fumed. "Just you keep them donkeys under control."

Edward had a hard time not laughing but knowing it would be ill received, he managed to keep a straight face and attempted to corral the donkeys despite not knowing the first thing about donkeys. His actions caught the attention of the drover.

"Oy you boy, What do you think your doing? Don't wave about like that you'll upset the donkeys," he shouted at Edward.

"Sorry Sir," Edward called back and restricted his flapping to that necessary to keep himself warm.

Eight donkeys trotted past Edward and stood about the yard aimlessly braying while the last four donkeys were paired off, each pair hauling a cart with a tread wheel on it. The engineers came hurrying down the yard with Sniderby puffing along behind them.

"Get them donkeys under control," Sniderby shouted at Edward who was trotting after loose donkeys with no idea how to control them. At the entrance to the yard Braithwaite solemnly closed and locked the gates.

With a little help from the Drover Edward manoeuvred the loose donkeys into a corner of the yard while the engineers began assembling the lrge wooden frames of the tread-wheel. 

Central to the machine's construction was the axial, mounted on a large cross, formed from two iron shod beams of wood bolted together with an iron collar. The axial was inserted into the collar and three more, long wooden bars, added to form spokes which the donkeys would pull.

The Drover began harnessing donkeys to the spokes and the engineers put the top cap on, then the four supporting bars so the structure now stood twelve feet high and looked like a canvas-less tent filled with donkeys. Finally the engineers ran a rubber and linen belt from the tread-wheel axial to the drive shaft of shed number two. The looms in the shed grumbled into life and the sound of Mrs. Thackery shouting her millers back to work came swiftly after.

Now Edward learnt what his job was, to keep the donkeys moving. The Drover gave him a stick and simple instruction how to hit a donkey to get it to move, then he was needed to clear donkeys out the way of the engineers as they assembled the second tread-wheel.

"How long do you think you'll be needing them?" asked the Drover. "I've got to get then over to Long Bottom Farm in a fortnight's time. He's already put good money down."

"I doubt it will be that long," Sniderby told him, knowing if it was that long, the drover would likely be putting his price up. "I've got a portable Neucombe Mark X engine coming from Sheffield at the end of the week, we can't last long on the paltry four horse power your donkeys give. This is a mill not a farm."

"Well if your going to be like that I can take my donkeys back," the Drover threatened though they both knew he wouldn't.

"No need to be touchy, I'm just saying, the Mark X should give us four hundred horse power, I can barely operate one shed with this set-up, let alone five. I'm loosing business hand over fist, some of our work's going to mills in Bradford and Barnsley, I can't compete against that without a proper engine," said Sniderby.

"Well I'll be back at seven o'clock, to take the donkeys to pasture all right?" The Drover said before walking over to Edward.

"Now you keep these here donkeys of mine in good shape you hear? I don't want none of my donkeys coming back bleeding or hobbling or you'll be for it right son?" the Drover threatened. Edward assured him that his donkeys would still be in the finest condition come night fall and was told that they'd better be.

The rest of the day was spent trudging around and around the tread-wheels, encouraging the donkeys along with a little carrot and a little stick. It wasn't as easy as the Drover had made it look, but if a tread-wheel faltered for a moment a cry would come from shed number two as Mrs. Thackery called out for more power. By the time night fell Edward had got the hang of the donkeys, he'd acquired just the right kind of arm waive to keep them walking without startling or frightening them and the work became considerably easier. He could have done it sitting on the edge of the loading bay but not wanting to attract attention he meandered casually round and round the tread-wheels with the donkeys, which had the added benefit of keeping him warm.

Eventually he heard the rattle of Braithwaite's key in the gates and the sound of voices as the Drover returned for his beasts. Edward began unhitching the donkeys from the tread-wheels while keeping the loose ones corralled.

"So where are you from?" He asked the Drover casually.

"Kettleside village, just down road here," replied the Drover.

"You're not from Blacksteel then?" asked Edward.

"No, no a town like Blacksteel is not for the likes of me, with its big houses and fancy shops down main street. No I like Kettleside, give me a nice cosy cottage and my donkeys over Blacksteel any day," said the Drover.

"Do you know where the Magistrate's house is?" asked Edward.

"Aye it's the big stone one opposite the cross in the town square." said the Drover. "Now why would a young orphan like yourself be wanting to know that?"

"No reason, I heard someone say it was a beautiful house is all," replied Edward hastily.

As they herded the donkeys towards the large iron gates an idea suddenly came to Edward.

"If you lead them along I'll herd them from behind," he suggested to the Drover. The Drover considered this for a moment, saw the soundness of it and said, "Right you are."

The Drover strode up the yard calling the donkeys. Edward chivvied them along from the rear making sure he wasn't spotted by Braithwaite, who was standing by the gatehouse smoking a small cigarette. As he drew close to the gatehouse Edward ducked down behind the last donkey and trotted past Braithwaite, and out of the gates.

The Drover turned left up the road away from town and Edward was forced to follow him a short distance before he spotted a bush suitable for hideing behind. Two swift steps and he was safely crouched out of sight behind a thick bush. The moon came out, but the clouds were black and heavy, threatening rain at any time and while there was occasional moon light, for the most part, Edward had the darkness to hide him. The donkeys clattered off up the road after the Drover and soon the quite of the night filled the road and Edward was completely alone. The Orphanage gates clanged shut.

He knew he needed to get to the Magistrate's house, which was back past the Orphanage, so he crossed the road and jumped into the ditch which ran along the side of the fields. Watery mud oozed over the tops of his thin leather boots but Edward didn't mind, he was free, he was outside the Orphanage, his heart raced a thousand miles an hour with excitement and fear. Once he put the Orphanage behind him he leapt out of the ditch and walked along the edge of the rough stone chip road. The only sounds were an owl hooting in the distance and the crunch of Edward's thin soled boots on the gravel.

After a while he heard something coming. Quickly Edward hid in the ditch and waited. A carriage came pounding up the road at a quick pace, pulled by four black horses,  their hooves beat time on the road as the harnesses slapped and jingled. Atop the carriage a driver in a wide brimmed hat with a scarf wrapped round his face, urged the horses on. The black carriage showed no sign of an occupant. It was quickly gone, passing away into the dark night and Edward climbed back out of the ditch and continued on.
Chapter 3 – Encounter with highwaymen
Edward had been walking for about an hour when he saw a light in the distance and was soon able to make out the black silhouette of a town house and see thin wisps of smoke coming from it's chimney. A dog barked in the darkness. As Edward approached the light he could see that it came from an old iron street-lamp, a gas flame flickering brightly in its little glass box. He crossed the road so to stay in the dark and creeping from shadow to shadow Edward entered the town of Blacksteel.

The road surface became firmer, harder and more compact as he approached the town square. Now the sides of the road were flagged with stone pavements, giving pedestrians somewhere they could walk without dragging their skirts and coat tails in the mud.

The modern brick buildings which lay on the outskirts of Blacksteel began to give way to the older stone buildings of the town proper. These were grander structures, not the small terraced houses and cottages of working folk but the rich halls and residences of the local ruling classes. These often had steps which ran up to black painted doors with brass fittings. Iron railings ran along the fronts of the buildings and all the window frames were painted white.

Edward heard footsteps in the street ahead and looked for a place to hide. It looked like there might be a dark ally just beyond the next house. Quickly and quietly he crept around the house and into the relative safety of the darkness beyond. A little back from the road he found some boxes and metal bins to crouch behind. The footsteps continued their steady pace. When it sounded like they'd drawn level with the ally Edward risked a peek. A tall dark figure in a distinctive dome shaped hat stood silhouetted against the gas light. It was the local Constable in his bright buttoned blue uniform. Edward ducked lower in his hiding place as the Constable shone a brass lamp down the ally. It's weak flickering light played across stone walls and over the wooden crates which hid Edward.

The Constable coughed then the light disappeared. A moment later Edward heard the sound of the Constable's footsteps as he moved on. Cautiously he crept to the end of the ally and looked out. He could see the Constable's receding back as the man strolled off towards the edge of town. Edward tiptoed quickly along the pavement dodging through the shadows and avoiding the weak pools of light which shone from the street lamps. The road before him opened up into a wide square with houses all around the edge. At one end of the town square stood the church, it's black spire pointing into the night. On the East side stood the pubic house, from which the strains of drunken singing could be heard. On the opposite side of the square stood the town court and next to it the Magistrate's house. Edward crept around the edge of the main square, avoiding the central market area with its medieval corn exchange.

At the steps to the Magistrate's house Edward faltered. He read the small brass plaque on the gate post, "The Hon. P. Barnstable JP, Magistrate". Was he doing the right thing? Edward wondered. He didn't know, he didn't have anywhere else to go, no one else to turn to. 

Taking his tattered cap in hand he climbed up the steps to the black door and lifted the large brass ring which hung from the mouth of a brass lion, and let it fall against the door with a resounding thud. Silence followed. Edward listened for the steps of the returning Constable and for any sounds from within. After a minute he raised the knocker again, thud, thud. The Magistrate's house remained silent and dark, no light showed at the window. Edward began to wonder what to do next, the Magistrate didn't appear to be in and he couldn't delay. Every moment his disappearance might be discovered. He hoped he wouldn't be missed until morning but he couldn't rely on it. He needed to be away from here as soon as possible.

While caught up in his thoughts a sudden noise came from the Public House. The noise grew louder as the door opened and several gentlemen staggered from the warm yellow fug into the cold street night. One of them was clearly worse for wear as he continued singing a ditty in a loud voice to the insistent shushing of his companions. They helped their drunken friend across the square moving in Edward's general direction. He had no where to hide. Looking round feverishly there was no where he could go without them seeing him. He stood still as a statue and hoped they wouldn't notice him.

"You've had more than a skin full tonight Jedediah." Edward heard one of the men say. "It's best you get yourself to bed and no mistake. Your head will be paying for this in the morning."

"Not as much as his purse paid tonight." joked the other.

"Well the less said of that the better." replied the first.

They reached Jedediah's door and the first man began fumbled through Jedediah's pockets for his  keys. The other leant forward and began a great knocking on the door.

"Shush that." said the first man. "You'll wake the whole town and then where will we be?"

As he spoke a light came on in Jedediah's house and a few moments later a sleep weary and annoyed house keeper opened the door.

"And now what has his Lordship been up to?" she asked. "Have we been visiting the Black Horse and over indulging in its victuals again Sir?" she continued, taking the drunken Jedediah by the arm. "I'll thank you good gents for returning his Lordship, though I don't know whether to thank ye for the state he's in or not."

The first man grunted at her and the two stepped away, the housekeeper saying "Best get you to bed Sir." as she closed the door on them. They stood at the bottom of Jedediah's steps talking a moment.

"You'll be trying that anarchist in the morning no doubt your honour." said the other man.

"Aye, his trial's due to start on the morrow though I've to see over my orchards at Grimthorp Hill so he may have to wait till the aftermorrow. Depends on my head in the morning see?" the first laughed.

"Well he's been got to rights so it's only likely saving his neck for one more day, anyways that you look at it." the other said.

"Well now lets not be hasty, he has to have a fair trial. As the Magistrate in these parts I have to been seen to be doing things properly." The first said.

"No doubt your Honour, and I meant nothing by my remark than to say the evidence stacks strongly against him. I hear the Imperial Agent is to give evidence on him and all."

"I'll give no legitimacy to what you've heard, if you want to hear the truth then be in court on the morrow." said the Magistrate.

"Or the following." laughed the other man as he walked away down the side of the church. The Magistrate turned and walked towards his own door. He was mounting the steps, his long thin frame protected by an equally long black cloak when he noticed Edward. For a moment he was clearly startled, but then perceiving that this was no anarchist come for revenge but rather a poor boy standing before him, he said "What do we have here then?"

"Please Sir are you the Magistrate?" asked Edward twisting his cap anxiously.

"I am Magistrate Barnstable." he answered. "What will you be wanting at this time of night."

"Sir, I'm fleeing the Orphanage in fear for my life and I heard you might have a sympathetic ear." said Edward.

"Is that so." Magistrate Barnstable said thoughtfully. "I think I may be of some help in that case."

Edward was relieved. "Thank you Sir, I don't know where to turn Sir." he babbled as the Magistrate led him down a side passage to the back of the house. They walked along side a high stone wall and turned into the street behind. The Magistrate opened a large wooden gate and guided Edward into the yard beyond. He knocked at a back door and after a few moments a man in shirt sleeves with a big black moustache and a pipe held in the corner of his mouth opened the door.

"Your Honour." the man nodded at the Magistrate.

"Start the steam car Benson, were taking this boy on a little journey." said the Magistrate.

"Right you are Sir." replied Benson pulling on his jacket and crossing the backyard to the carriage shed. He rolled back the doors revealing the horseless carriage. Its brass fittings gleamed in the lamp light, as did the black painted steel suspension which curved gracefully between the wheels. Benson went to the back of the carriage and and set a light under the rear mounted boiler.

They waited while the oil burner heated the water boiler. While Benson checked the water levels, tapped gauges and tweaked some of the small brass ajusting wheels, Magistrate Barnstable said "Have you been in a steam car before boy?"

"No Sir." replied Edward excitement showing in his voice. A steam car, he not ever ridden a horse or in a carriage let alone a steam car.

"This will be a real treat for you then boy." the Magistrate assured him. "This is a Clarkson Mark IV oil burning steam car, with the latest in parabolic brass lamps, and pure Malaysian hard rubber tyres with a steel suspension. Impressed boy." the last asked with a tone of voice that implied anything but being very impressed just would not do.

"Oh yes Sir." replied Edward enthusiastically.

Soon the boiler had gained a good head of steam and Benson nodded to his master.

"Right your Honour., she's ready to roll." he said.

"All aboard." the Magistrate called playfully and he opened the burnished wooden door of the carriage. He helped Edward, almost pushing him into the carriage and followed swiftly in behind calling out to the driver as he did so. "To the Orphanage Benson." and the carriage door slammed shut.

Edward's heart sunk. He was going straight back. The carriage lurched into motion with a hiss of steam, rumbled out of the yard and along the back street making a hiss-a-gu-chuck, hiss-a-gu-chuck noise as it rolled along. If he hadn't felt so betrayed Edward would have rather enjoyed himself, but as it was, the black road barely visible through the small front window and the almost black of the inside of the carriage, Magistate Barnstable's sharp elbows pressing into him despite the man's thick cloak. Edward felt tired and defeated. The carriage rolled on through town towards the open road which led back to the Orphanage.

Soon the steam car left the street lamps of town behind and nothing could be seen through the window. When, a little later, the car came to a juddering halt, Edward braced himself for the sever beating he'd be getting from Sniderby. The sound of muffled voices came from outside. A raised voices could be heard, then a sudden silence, which was followed by an ominous thump on the carriage roof, a rattling came at the door and it was wrenched open and a bright lamp shone in.

"Now what do we have here?" said a rough voice. "His nibs Magestrate Barnstable I do believe, and who else? Surely not his son?"

"Now look here my good man." blustered the Magistrate. "Just what do think is going on here?"

"Well I'm sure your Honour's business is his own." replied the rough voice. "That said his Lordships business is now mine and if his Lordship doesn't want to end up face down in the dirt like his lackey here, then he'd better be turning out his pockets. You too son, lets see what you've got."

"I really don't know what you thinking your doing." Barnstaple protested "But I'm not having any of it."

The man said nothing as he hit the Magistrate in the face with the butt of a revolver. Realising this was a robbery, Edward decided to throw himself on the mercy of the highwaymen.

"Sir, please Sir." pleaded Edward. "I'm being take by force, here let me help you." He began turning out the Magistrate's pockets for him as the injured man lay in the foot well moaning and holding his bleeding nose.

"You'll be hung. The lot of you." Barnstable mumbled through bloody fingers and swollen nostrils.

At this the masked man at the door said. "Right son, you'd better come with us." he ripped a gleaming watch from the Magistrate's waistcoat pocket and pulled a ring from an unresisting finger before disappearing into the night. Edward fell out of the hateful carriage behind him, clutching the things he'd found in the magistrate's pockets.

Picking himself up from the road he found himself surrounded by four men in wide brimmed hats wearing masks made from scraps of cloth. Each wore a heavy coat which fell below the knee and on their feet, tattered leather boots. Benson lay face down and motionless on the ground near the front of the steam-car and Edward couldn't tell if he was dead or alive.

"Don't mind about him." said the highwayman, "You're coming with us." Another highwayman dug Edward in the back with what he imagined was a pistol and all five of them moved off the road and into the fields. They trudged a while through the short wheat stalks and round the haystacks till they came to a small copse of trees where the highwaymen had tied up four tired looking horses. Edward was forced to climb onto a horse and one of the highwaymen took place behind him, then they all set off at a reasonable pace.

For an hour or two there was silence among the highwaymen as they rode across the fields and through the surrounding woods. They kept a distance from towns and roads preferring the trees and hedges to open fields. Eventually they entered a large wood. As the sun began to rise and weak light filtered through the thick foliage they came to a cave in the side of a rocky outcrop. The highwaymen dismounted and pushing Edward ahead of them led their horses into the cave.

A stabling area for eight horses had been errected along one side of the cave and this led to a narrow entrance at the back, through which came the dull orange flickering of torch light. The men put their horses in the stalls and took Edward deeper into the cave. A short tunnel led to a second chamber offering several doors and a wooden staircase which wound round the walls up to a second level. Two women sat on a low bench working at the wooden table in the middle of the room, they looked up as the men came in. The relief at seeing the men safe, clearly written on their faces.

The men began taking off their coats and masks while the women fussed around them and began putting mugs and plates out on the table, so it was a few moments before Edward was spotted.

"Who's this then?" a woman in her late twenties asked when she saw Edward standing quietly by the entrance.

"Says he was being taken against his will and we couldn't leave him to a hanging." answered the highwayman settling himself at the table.

"You can't bring him here he might give our hiding place away." she objected.

"It's too late for that, besides the boy has no idea where he is. Do you lad?" the highwayman addressed Edward.

"No Sir." Edward replied.

"And less of the Sir. You're a highwayman now boy. I'm Derek Badger leader of the infamous Badger gang. That's Boss to you." Derek told him.

"Yes Sir, er Boss. Yes Boss." said Edward. The women laughed.

"Sit down son." said the older woman. "You're making the place look untidy." The younger woman disappeared through one of the doorways into a back room, from which came the most delicious smells Edward had ever experienced. He began to salivate and his stomach let out a long loud groan which set the others laughing again.

"I can see your ready for a bit of old Betsie's rabbit stew." Derek said.

"Old, The cheek of it." The older woman protested pulling Derek's cap over his eyes.

"This is Roger, Pete and John, and the girl in the kitchen is Ruth," said Derek introducing the others. "Now who might you be?"

"Edward, Edward Blacksteel... Boss." replied Edward.

"Eddy it is then." Derek said.

"Blacksteel?" queried Betsie." Aint you an orphan then?"

"Yes, Ma'am." replied Edward.

"He's a polite one and no mistake." laughed Betsie. "But you can call me Mum." she told him.

The noise of conversation and the smell of good food brought two other residents of the cave into the main room. A boy about Edward's age and an old man.

"Here's Rob and Pops." Boss Badger announced as two more came down the stairs. "Rob's been on lookout duty in the hide on the hill. Got to keep a good lookout in these times. And old Pops here, well he's probably been having a snooze."

A wizened old man with a white whiskery face and a back bent with age carefully made his way down the stairs followed by a brown haired gangly youth with a pleasant face, whose frame was just beginning to fill out with the first signs of manhood.

Rob and Pops took their places at the table as Ruth brought a steaming pot of stew from the kitchen and Derek took out his revolver to began cleaning the chambers.

"We're about to eat Derek." objected Betsie.

"Got to keep the equipment tip top Mum." replied Boss Badger while he continued his inspection of the weapon turning the grey metal in his large hands, steel blue eyes carefully inspecting its every detail. Ruth began to dole out large spoonfuls of delicious rabbit and dumpling stew with carrots, onions and thick rich gravy which to Edward smelt heavenly. The revolver cleaning was swiftly forgotten. A satisfied silence fell over the assembly as the final drops of rabbity goodness were wiped from battered tin plates with lumps of crusty bread. The silence was broken when Derek let forth a gusty belch.

"So what did you get tonight, besides the boy?" asked Betsie.

"Well lets see, this magnificent watch." Derek pulled a large fob watch on a heavy chain from his pocket and dangled it for all to see. "And what ever the boy found in the Magistrate's pockets."

"Magistrate? What Magistrate?" asked an alarmed Betsie.

"Blacksteel Magistrate." Derek told her. "We stopped his steam-car on the Holingbrook road, held it up we did." He smiled wickedly round as the men nodded and grinned in approval.

"That's not good." said Pops. "He's important him, they'll be wanting to hang someone for that."

"Well they've got to catch someone first." retorted Derek, "and meanwhile I have his watch, his gold ring and..." he looked at Edward who immediately turned out his pockets and spilt the Magistrate's belongings onto the table. Coins clattered and ratted round the tin plates, a wallet, a silk handkerchief, a cheep fountain pen and a letter with a broken seal also fell to the table.

They poured over the haul scrabbling for the change while Derek opened the wallet and tipped out several large notes. "He's got a hundred pound in here." Derek said with amazement and they all stared at the ten large white notes with the black and red printing on them. None of them had ever seem so much money before and were in awe of it.

"There'll be trouble." said Pops.

"Look at all this money." said Derek. "We're rich. Stop your worrying old man, they'll never find us and it wont be long before the magistrate's forgotten."

"It's not the money." said Pops. "It's that letter."

"What do you know about that letter old man, you haven't even read it." replied Derek.

"No, but I know the Imperial seal when I see it." he said gloomily.

"Imperial seal?" Derek picked up the letter and inspected it. It had been closed with a large red blob of wax which was cleanly snapped in half. "You'd better read it then hadn't you." Derek said angrily throwing the letter at Pops.

"Aye I'd better, seems as I'm the only one here as can read." he replied picking up the letter and unfolding it. While he read the men went back to drooling over the bank notes.

"This isn't good." the old man said tapping the thick paper with a crooked finger.

"What do you mean? What does it say?" asked Derek impatiently.

"It's a letter from the Imperial Office giving the Agent jurisdiction in this area." replied Pops.

"And just what does that mean?" asked Derek.

"It means that the Imperial Agent is now the law in these parts through out the West Ridings. It means he's judge jury and executioner and if he needs more men, then he has every copper and every militiaman in these parts to his command. It means he'll want his letter back." Pops groaned.
Chapter 4 – Badger's Den
Edward found it very strange living with the Badger gang at first. He'd never experienced life like this before. His new life, as a highwayman, was very different from his old one as an engineer's apprentice at the Orphanage. Though the gang accepted him as one of their own Edward was reluctant to tell them about his fears of assassination, real or imagined, he was unsure why, but it seemed prudent to keep thoughts on the matter to himself for now.

With the Magistrate’s bills in their pockets the Badger gang was in no hurry to go out robbing. instead they entertained themselves with a little rabbit or pheasant poaching and an apparently endless supply of cheep beer bought, of course, with the Magistrate's money. The younger woman, Ruth, found Edward some old blankets and with a little straw made him a place to bed down in the same room as Rob. It wasn't so much a room as a large hole gouged out of the bare rock, but it was warm with a blanket hung over the entrance, and large enough for the two of them to sleep.

There appeared to be no rules for Edward to follow nor duties for him to perform. Boss Badger had warned, that he shouldn't go wondering about outside the cave without a guide, but this seemed to be more about not getting lost in the woods or drawing attention to the cave's existence, than about imprisonment. Indeed Edward found himself free to explore the cave dwelling to his heart's content.

Besides the main room which led to the stables and the kitchen, there was a storage room with crooked shelves holding assorted junk, anything from a tin of ham to a rusty scythe blade without the handle. There were dusty crates, some empty, some containing, Edward knew not. A pile of clothing, blankets and old shoes sat in a corner and it was from this that Edward suspected dear Ruth had found his bedding.

The stairs in the main room were rickety and they creaked and groaned when stepped upon. These led to a small platform and a door, beyond which, a second, smaller room appeared to be formed from a natural space in the rock just as the main room was. It was long and narrow with a low rocky ceiling with one side made of bare exposed earth. Several chambers had been dug from the soil, one of which was the room Edward shared with Rob. Of the other two dirt chambers, the women had the next largest, and the men shared the final one, though the men often slept in the main room, heads resting on the beer stained table. At the far end of the narrow room a small hole in the ceiling had a ladder lent against it which went up into a hidden hut constructed on the hillside above the entrance to the cave.

The hide on the hill gave a good view of the woods which lay before the cave. On a three trunk next to the hut someone had nailed short batons of wood to for a crude ladder and high up in the trees' thick branches a lookout post had been made from bits of crate and canvass, which provided some protection from the elements. The lookout post fascinated Edward and when he wasn't playing draughts down in the main chamber with the old man he was up in the lookout with Rob surveying the surrounding countryside.

Edward soon formed a strong friendship with Rob, their similarity in age and their fascination with being up the lookout soon made them inseparable. Rob's quiet patience manner and quick strong actions complemented Edward's own enthusiastic exploration of his new world. Rob told Edward that Betsie was his Mother and Boss Badger was his step-Father. He didn't know what had happened to his real Father, though he thought he was dead, probably hung as as a robber and that the other men were local lads who had, in one way or another, fallen on the foul side of the law and taken sanctuary in Boss Badger's cave hideout. Ruth was Johnny's little sister and though she'd done nothing untoward, Johnny had brought her so the local Constable couldn't use her to get at him.

From the lookout Rob pointed out the main landmarks which could be seen from the tree. To the north over the distant hill lay Blacksteel. To the East the village of Clayside. Running along the valley below the road, along which they watched the farmers with their hay-carts, the farm labourers walking with tools slung over their shoulders and the postal steam-car passed once a day and which, Rob said, you could set your watch by, though neither of them had such an item to set.

Sometimes after the main meal Edward played draughts with old man Pops. He'd never played the game before. The draughts board looked as old as the man, in places the thin veneer had cracked and splintered so there were more black squares than white. Every draught piece was chipped and worn and several had been replaced by washers or buttons. The old man would set out the pieces with care, then sit back and fill a crooked pipe with a pungent tobacco, before making his opening move. When he'd seen Edward take an interest in the game he immediately offered to teach him, a new opponent always a welcome challenge.

Although he felt safe for now Edward, was concerned for Anna, and often wondered what might have happened to her. He was also intrigued by the Imperial Agent's letter and particularly keen to compare it to the one he kept hidden in the little leather purse he wore around his neck. So one night as Pops was clearing Edwards draughts off the board he asked him.

"Pop's have you still got the Magistrate's letter?" asked Edward.

"Why would you be interested in such a thing?" replied Pops. "It's as like you can't read anyway."

Edward could read. Though tough, the Orphanage provided a basic education to the younger children in its care. Until he turned twelve Edward had been schooled in reading, writing and counting every morning, afternoons were spent learning the skills of the weaving trade, these had been very hands on kinds of lessons.

"I can read." Edward stated flatly.

"I see." the old man puffed on his pipe. "Then you think I didn't tell it proper then?" He narrowed his eyes suspiciously.

"No Pops." Edward protested. "It's just that, well I have a letter too and I wanted to see if there were any similarities."

"Is that so." said the old man slowly. "Well what about, I'll show you mine if you show me yours?"

It wasn't an idea that Edward was keen on but it seemed the only way he was going to get a look at the Agent's letter so pretending to go up to his sleeping chamber he came back down with the letter. He kept it folded in four then folded again in the original manner which was formed of a clever fold that kept the paper held tight like a little envelope. On the exposed sides of the letter the paper had become brown with age but unfolded the paper inside was almost as clean and creamy as the day it had been written. The writing had been done with a fountain pen and was in a flowing hand. Edward carefully peeled open his letter and flattened it out before passing it to the old man. In return the old man passed Edward the Agents letter.

The first thing Edward noticed about the Agent's letter was it written in English. He was disappointed. He'd hoped the agent's letter would be written in the same language as his own letter, and therefore, the old man could have deciphered it.

"What's this rubbish?" said Pops waiving Edward's letter at him. "This some sort of joke?"

"No Pops." replied Edward. That letter was left me by my Mother, or so I'm told. It's the only thing of hers I have. I hoped you might be able to read it."

Pops looked back at the writing and scratched his head. "No son. I don't know what this says, if anything. What about my letter?"

Edward read it again. "It says what you said." Edward confirmed. He began folding it up again and as he did so he noticed the wax seal. There was something about it that struck him but he couldn't think what. He gave the rich red wax a second look, pushing the two halves of it together. The image impressed in the brittle wax was of a shield with feathers and a crown. Either side of the shield stood two rampant beasts, a lion and a unicorn. The shield was divided into quarters each with a tiny image. These were so small that it wasn't easy to tell what they were, though one seemed to be three wavy lines and another the head of a boar.

"The Imperial seal." said Pops seeing Edward's interest. "See the horse and the lion? They're the Imperial marks and the bits inside the shield tell which department it came from." he explained.

Then it hit Edward just why the seal had vexed him so. The lion and the unicorn, he'd seen them before, holding a shield just as this one. His ring, that was where he'd seen them before. He tried to keep his shock and excitement from his face and voice and solemnly, and somewhat reluctantly, handed the Agent's letter back to Pops. With the excuse that he was off to hide his letter again Edward went up the ladder into the daylight to better take a look at his ring.

There were several differences. Firstly the unicorn and the lion were on the opposite sides of the shield. On the wax seal the lion had been on the right and on his ring, the lion was on the left, but both beasts were otherwise identical. The feathers seemed a little different and the shield had a diagonal sash across it adorned by three diamonds. The little figures in the four quarters also seemed different to Edward. So he had an Imperial ring. What did it mean? He tucked the ring and his letter back into their pouch and hide them again under his shirt. He would have think about that.

Several days later while Edward was sitting up the lookout, watching the road below, Rob came clambering up the tree.

"Eddy, Eddy, Boss Badger wants us to go into Clayside Village and get him some more beer." Rob told him excitedly. "This is a chance to show you round the village, and look, Boss Badger has given me some money, five pound three shillings and some odd pennies." He held out the note and the coins in both hands, for Edward to see.

As this was Edward's first chance to leave the cave since he'd arrived he leapt at the opportunity and the two boys swung down from the tree and raced each other through the cave to the stables.

"We can take this one." said Rob indicating the oldest saggiest horse in the stable, a large grey mare called Strawberry. He patted her affectionately before throwing a rope halter round her neck. Rob leapt up onto Strawberry's bare back and offered Edward a hand. Edward scrambled up onto the patient beast and with a little goading from Rob the horse began to walk from of the cave down through the woods.

"We'd better keep off the road till we're near the village." Rob said guiding Strawberry between oak and sycamore trees. 

Edward was pleased to be outside in the open woodland. Except for the twice yearly orphan's outing, once at the beginning of Summer and once at the end, Edward had spent his entire life inside the walls of Blacksteel Orphanage. The outings had been the highlight of the orphan's calendar, a whole afternoon running around a local farmer's field while the gentry looked on benevolently. The Blacksteel Women's Guild organised the outings so, at the end of the day there was always a piece of cake each for the children.

The horse carried the boys along a little beck and through a grassy clearing filled with poppies and hollyhocks. Butterflies fluttered in front of them and rich woodland scents filled their nostrils. After a while the woodland began to give way to open fields and Rob took the horse onto the road for the final part of the journey to the village.

Strawberry was clop clopping slowly and steadily along the roadside when Rob suddenly dug Edward in the ribs and pointed excitedly into the air.

"Do you see that Eddy?" asked Rob. He pointed at a dark object coming over the tree line behind the village. At first it was difficult to make out, but as they approached the village they saw the dark object more clearly.

"It's an airship." Rob said almost reverently.

Edward had seen such things once or twice before. Very occasionally, one would pass over the orphanage, an event that sent the children running excitedly into the yard to point and gesture until Mrs. Thackery or Mr. Sniderby ordered everyone back to their duties.

This one had a large grey fat cigar shaped gas bag, underneath which hung a black gondola the size of a small sailing ship. Sunlight gleamed off the brass fittings and round glass portholes which regularly punctured the long wooden hull. An open gantry ran the sides of the airship along which stood soldiers placed at regular intervals wearing black uniforms. On the gantry just a thin railing of wire stood between them and a fall to certain death. The airship was one of the most majestic things Edward had ever seen.

"That's a hawk class ship." Rob told Edward. "You can tell by the number of portholes and the figurehead at the front."

The airship passed gracefully over them heading in the direction of Blacksteel. The boys were twisting in their seats so much to get a good view of the receding airship that they almost walked their poor horse into the back of a hay cart.

"Watch out there you." The driver of the cart called at the boys as Rob encouraged Strawberry around the obstruction and into the centre of the village. It was a typical English village with a small green forming both the physical and spiritual centre of the community. The important things of village life were seated around the edges of the green. At one end the church, on one side the public house and on the other, the post office, on the far side of the green, the Manor house.

Rob guided Strawberry over to the public house and tied her up outside leaving Edward to find his own way off the beast back. By the time he finally struggled down Rob had disappeared inside the building. Edward followed him in with some trepidation, he'd never been in a place like this before, though he'd heard stories.

Rob was already sat on a wooden stool at the bar two pints of dark brew sat on the rough hewn wood which ran along one side of the room. It smelt sticky sweet, of tobacco and stale beer.

"This your friend then?" the barman asked Rob.

"Aye, he's me mate." Rob confirmed taking a manly swig of his beer and wiping his mouth with the back of his sleeve. "Come and have a pint." he invited Edward.

They drank their glasses half empty then Rob said. "Right we need two kegs of this and a bottle of port for Betsie."

The barman rolled out two kegs which the boys tied together with rope and lifted over the horse's back.

"thirsty work that." Rob grinned, the first half pint beginning to work on him. "Lets drink up and be on our way."

They finished their pints and after a little clowning around managed to regain their seats on the back of their horse and began the return journey.

Though Edward had never drunk before in his life, the Badger gang had soon introduced him to the delights of beer and had had much merriment watching him stagger round the cave the first time he got drunk. They'd drunk beer nightly since then and Edward was becoming quite used to it. Flushed with alcohol infused enthusiasm the boys chatted animatedly about the airship they'd seen until they turned off the road back into the woods.

Soon they were both feeling woozy and tired and became slumped in their seats as the old horse patiently continued to take them toward home. Eventually the ground began to rise and they approached the cave entrance.

Edward was the first to notice something wrong. A smell hung in the trees that wasn't right, a smell of burning and singed fat. He looked up to see a pall of smoke rising from the hill above the cave.

"Something is wrong Rob," Edward said, "very wrong."

Rob stirred himself in his seat and looked up. He sat bolt upright and began urging Strawberry to speed. As they approached the cave entrance it was clear that something terrible had happened. Dark smoke and flame poured out of the cave entrance rising gravely into the sky. Rob jumped from the horse's back and rushed to the cave disappearing into the smoke.

Edward jumped down from the horse and approached more cautiously. Even as he came close to the entrance Rob came running back out coughing and choking his face black with soot and streaked with tears.

"I can't get inside, it's too hot." Rob coughed. Once he'd caught his breath and recovered a little the two boys scrambled round the hill to the hide on top. Here smoke poured out in thick black puffs and it was clear they weren't going to gain entry that way either.

"Who's done this?" Rob asked sitting on the ash covered grass. "Why? Why would they do this? I bet it's that Magistrate or that Agent. I'll get'em, I will." He sobbed into his coat sleeve. Edward said nothing. What could he say that would comfort his friend? He sat down next to him and waited.

As darkness began to fall the fire inside began to fail as most of the available fuel was burnt up and the boys were eventually able to force their way into the stable and the main room beyond. In the stark flickering light of the small fires which were the remains of the rickety stairs and table the boys were able to see that the place was completely destroyed and anyone who had been in there at the time would undoubtedly have been burn to a crisp. There was nothing worth salvaging.

"We should get away from here as soon as possible." said Edward. "Whoever did this might come back."

"Where are we going to go?" asked Rob, rubbing his eyes and straightening his coat.

"I don't know. Anywhere away from here. At least for a while." begged Edward.

The boys clambered back onto Strawberry and began to ride south away from both Blacksteel and Clayside. They'd not gone far when Rob spotted a dark shape lying on the ground. Jumping down from the horse he approached the hunched shape, which to Edward's surprise let out a moan.

It was Boss Badger and he was badly injured. Rob helped him into a sitting position while Edward brought him some of the beer from the kegs slung across Strawberry's back.

"You're good lads." Boss Badger wheezed when he'd had a sip or two from the tin mug Edward offered.

"They came so quickly, from the airship, falling like black flowers on gossamer threads." Boss Badger coughed. "Caught us unawares they did. The lads and I fought 'em got a couple even but they were too many. I managed to escape but they killed everyone else, everyone of 'em." He coughed again and a dark liquid dribbled from his mouth, liquid too dark to be beer.

"No Boss." Rob shook the man causing him to cough again.

"Get away from here boys." Boss Badger said with his dying breaths. "You've an uncle in Tewkesbury lad." He said to Rob. "Get to Tewkesbury Docks and find your Uncle Billy." Boss coughed again and his head fell limply on his chest.

"No, no Boss. Don't die on me." Rob wailed tears streaming down his face but the man lay still as a grave and replied no more. They stayed the night beside the body of Derek Badger and in the morning when his corpse was stiff and cold, they piled rocks and sticks on him. They stood a while paying silent respect then, with tears streaming down his dirt smeared face, Rob swore vengeance on those who had killed his family.
Chapter 5 – Trapped at Manor Farm
Over the next few days the boys moved steadily southward living off the land as they went. They kept to the woods or where that wasn't possible, to the hedgerows and fields, avoiding the roads as much as possible. During the day they rode in desultory silence, at night they huddled together for warmth. From time to time they were forced to pass through a village, to ask directions or buy a little food with the few coins they had left from the money Boss Badger had given them.

As the boys past to the east of Reddich dark thunderous clouds which had threatened rain all day released their payload. Long grey rods of water beat upon the boys hunched backs. Cold water soaked through their clothes and dripped down their collars. With hands and lips turned blue with cold they pressed on heads bent against the assaulting elements. The morning wore on and the clouds only grew blacker and heavier with no sign of the rain abating.

By lunch time they were crossing the woodlands and fields between the villages of Morton Bagot and Spernal Ash. They paused briefly under the spreading branches of an old oak tree. Sheltering between the trunk and Strawberry's broad flank, they chewed on lumps of cold, wet, stale, bread. As they climbed back on Strwaberry Rob began to sneeze and Edward knew they would need to find shelter for the night. They continued plodding on, but soon Rob had a hacking cough to punctuate his sneezes and he began to shiver uncontrollably.

They were crossing a sodden field when Edward spotted a run down building standing in the corner of a field, and though he knew it to be a risk, he decided they should stop the night. Perhaps he could find enough dry wood to get a fire going. He guided Strawberry over to the stone structure. At sometime in the past it had been a cow byre or donkey stable. It consisted of a stone rear and side walls with a wooden roof and wooden front wall. The front wall had become damaged, rotted and collapsed in places and the roof let in more water than it kept out, but at the back, in a far corner Edward found a dry place which he helped Rob walk to  and lay him down, then back out to look for wood.

Behind the stone shed lay a tangle of branches and weeds and bits of tree trunk where the farmer had clearly dumped his hedge cuttings, tree stumps and unwanted bits of farm lumbar. Pulling off the top branches, Edward found enough relatively dry wood to start a fire. 

He made tinder with dry rotten wood flakes from the shed wall, and using flints which Rob kept in a little tin, tried to get a fire started. He'd not had much experience with flint and it took him a while, fingers stiff and shaking from the cold.  Eventually a spark caught in the fluffy mass of tinder. A tiny glow encouraged by soft blowing became a bigger glow and with further coaxing, Edward eventually encouraged it to an infant flame. With a little care and patience he brought the fire to life. Next he spent an hour or so dragging suitable bits of wood into the shed, stacking them near the fire. Having collected an adequte stock of fuel Edward removed his sodden clothes and hung the garments on sticks he'd set around the fire before turning his attention to Rob.

While Edward built the fire Rob had coughed and hacked, shivered and moaned, but now, just as disturbingly, he had fallen silent. Edward felt his forehead as he'd seen the nurse do at the orphanage. His head was burning hot but as Edward struggled Rob out of his wet clothes the boy moaned and complained he felt deathly cold. Edward hung Rob's clothes, as he had his own and went and lay down next to his friend to help keep him warm. After an hour or so Rob fell into a fitful sleep and Edward got up to feed the fire again. Their shirts were almost dry so he took them and lay them over Rob. As more of their garments dried off Edward was able to improve the boy's bed with their coats. He himself put on only his trousers donating his coat and shirt to Rob's greater need.

Sitting on the dirt floor listening to the drip drip of the rain from the rickety roof Edward examined their worldly goods and wealth. It came to two shillings and sixpence, half a loaf of stale bread and a few ounces of hard cheese. There was still a half keg of beer and, Edward supposed rather optimistically, they owned an empty keg and some rope. They might get a few pence for the kegs. He woke Rob, who seemed a little better, his fever had subsided and the chill seemed out of his bones. Edward helped him eat some bread, which he softened in beer and gave Rob all the cheese. After that Edward stoked up the fire with logs from the pile and wrapping themselves in their coats the two boys huddled down together and fell asleep.

Edward woke with a sharp jabbing in his side, he rolled over trying to shift it, only to find the jabbing was now on his other side. He opened his eyes and looked up to see a fat red angry face which peering down at him from under a farmer's hat. The farmer poked him once more with the barrel of a shotgun and grunted, his large ginger moustache shaking as he did so.

"Looks like Tripps was right, there was smoke coming from the old byre last night," said the farmer. "Now what are you two doing here? No good I'll be bound. Well this is my byre you're trespassing in, so you two will be coming with me."

"There's a horse an' all," a voice cried from outside the byre.

"Horse thieves to boot then," said the farmer. "Now up with the both of you," he gave Edward an even harder poke with the gun to underline his point.

"We're not horse thieves, that's our horse," protested Edward as he got to his feet. "We only needed a dry place for the night, we haven't done anything wrong."

"Less of your lip son," said the farmer waiving both barrels in Edward's face. "Just follow old Hodgkins there and I'll be right behind you with this horse and this shotgun," he told the boys.

Heads hung they followed the farm hand across a field towards the gate, whereupon the bedraggled little parade left the field and continued up the lane which led to Manor Hall Farm. Up ahead old Hodgkins swung open the farmyard gate and the farmer ushered the boys into the yard.

At the far end stood a farmhouse, a typical two story stone structure with its own little garden behind a low stone wall. Flowers sat on windowsills in cheery pots and a green painted door opened onto a short path. Along one side of the yard ran stables, an engine room and storage sheds. On the other, several pens built from rough hewn planks housed pigs and sheep. An old wooden cart with a broken axial stood rotting in the corner.

 As they entered the farmyard a voice called out, and a pretty young girl of fifteen or so years of age, in a pretty yellow dress and white stockings, came skipping out the farm house door.

"Papa papa," she cried excitement all over her rosy cheeked face. But when she saw the boys she came to an abrupt halt.

"Now you just get yourself back inside young Tilly," said the farmer without any of the gruffness he'd used on the boys.

"Who are they?" asked the girl, ignoring her father's order.

"Just some scallywags I caught, down the field at bluebell bottom," said the farmer. "You don't go worrying about them."

Tilly looked the two boys over and as she did so Edward caught her eye. She gave him a shy smile then looked at her father.

"They look hungry to me," said Tilly.

"Never you mind about that young lady. They've been up to no good I'll be bound, and I'm not paying to put honest food in their mouths," he replied.

"You've no right in keeping us this way," Edward protested. "We've done nothing wrong," he knew it was probably a mistake to speak out but he was tired and angry.

"We'll see what the Constable has to say about that when I fetch him up here," said the farmer herding the boys towards an empty stable. "Meanwhile you can make yourselves comfortable in here," he added pushing them in. The stable door slammed shut behind them.

After a few minutes Edward's eyes grew accustomed to the gloom. The stable door and several loose roof tiles allowed some light in, and a long split in the wood gave the boys a partial view of the yard. Chickens pecked hopefully at the mud and lazing on an old stone wall, a grey cat watched them with emerald green eyes which had a greedy glint in them. Once Rob was sure the yard was empty he tested the door with his shoulder. Even though it was loose in its fittings it was locked solidly shut. For now at least there was nothing to do except sit and wait and contemplate their fate.

Edward began a search of the stable to see if there was anything of use, but all he got for his efforts was a hand full of horse dung. The morning wore on and the sun began to dry out the mud in the yard. In the distance Edward heard a dog barking excitedly and from the nearby trees, birds sang brightly in their freedom, but the sun didn't reach into the dark stable to warm the boys whose bellies ached with hunger.

The sun had reached its midday high when Edward heard the farmhouse door open and the sound of delicate footsteps skipping across the yard. He looked out through a crack in the door and saw the grey cat still asleep in the sunshine. Suddenly a shadow fell across his view and a moment later the pretty blond locks and bright yellow of Tilly's frock filled the splintered aperture through which Edward peered.

"Pssst, pssst," she hissed through the door. "Can you hear me?" she whispered horsely.

"Yes," Edward whispered back.

"Who is it?" asked Rob.

"It's the farmers daughter," Edward told him.

"Are you all right in there?" asked Tilly.

"We're cold and hungry and it's not right us being locked up like this when we've done nothing wrong," replied Edward. "We've done nothing except sleep in your father's rotten old shed," he told her through the door.

"And he's stolen our horse Strawberry," Rob added.

"will you help us?" asked Edward.

There was silence from the other side of the door then Tilly replied. "I'll get into a whole heap of trouble if I let you out," she said doubtfully.

"If you're not he to help us then why are you here?" asked Edward.

"I'm so lonely and bored in the farmhouse all day," she confessed.

"Can you bring us something to eat?" asked Edward. "We're sore hungry."

Again there was silence then the sound of Tilly's footsteps hurrying away.

"Do you think she'll help us?" asked Rob.

"I don't know," Edward replied truthfully as he slumped back down with his back to the door.

The yard was quiet again except for the odd clucking of hens and the boys sank back, each into their respective thoughts. Just as Edward was about to give up any hope of help or food from Tilly, he heard her quick steps approach the stable again. Through the crack in the door he saw she carried a cloth covered basket. After a moment a rattling came at the door as the girl drew back the rusty old bolt, then, the door swung open and bright sunlight flooded in. Their saviour stood framed in the doorway, golden sunshine pouring through her hair.

"Here I've brought you something to eat," she said, handing the basket to Edward, who, quick as a flash took the basket and stood in the doorway so she couldn't close the door again.

"What are you doing?" she wailed as Edward signalled to Rob to follow him.

"We're not staying her a moment longer, that's what we're doing," he told her, then taking pity on her he gave her a kiss on her peachy cheek and said. "Tell you're father we tricked you, or we broke loose. Now which stable did he put our horse in?"

Confused and more than a little upset Tilly indicated the next stall and in a moment Rob was leading Strawberry out. She'd lost the kegs, but that mattered not to the boys who were joyful to have their liberty, and their horse back again. Poor Tilly was on the verge of tears as they climbed on to Strawberry's back.

"Don't worry," Edward reassured her. "You've righted a great wrong and if we ever come by this way again we'll see you right," and with that Rob urged Strawberry to the fastest canter she was capable off and they trotted off down the road waiving to the poor girl as they went.

"We'd better keep off the road as much as we can, we don't want to run into that farmer again," said Edward, so soon as they could, Rob took them into the fields and they continued cross country. Once they felt they were far enough away from Manor Farm they stopped by a stream in a small wood and took stock of the basket Tilly had given them.

Under a red and white checked cover they found fresh bread and cheese and small ham, apples and pears and two little cakes. They were starving and the food tasted wonderful. They felt they were eating like kings and in no time at all, all they had left was the basket and a sense of fulfilment, where for so many days there had been nothing but emptiness.

"How far to Tewkesbury do you thing?" asked Rob, a contented grin on his face.

"I don't know, not far now I think," replied Edward. "Maybe a day, two at the most?"

"As long as we keep heading south-west we should be fine," said Rob. "We just keep heading a bit south of the setting sun."

The boys knelt by the side of the stream and drank their fill of the pure sweet spring water which ran there and washed clean their grime streaked faces before climbing on to the ever patient Strawberry's back. As they proceeded though the woods with the birds singing and everything feeling right with the world, Edward felt like joining the birds in their chorus though he knew no songs, so he hummed merrily to himself and after a fashion Rob joined in with a jauntily whistled tune.

Nearing the edge of the wood Rob suddenly fell silent and indicating to Edward to do the same, he brought Strawberry to a halt.

"What is it?" asked Edward.

"Listen," Rob replied in hushed tones.

Edward listened and after a moment or two he heard the sound of horses approaching. Through the scree of bushes and branches the boys watched the road which ran back in the direction from which they had come. Coming up the road towards them was the farmer on a brown mare closely followed by a mounted Constable in a blue uniform and behind them a black carriage with four militiamen wearing red jackets and long black boots. As they passed the place where the boys were hidden the boys clearly saw the Imperial crest emblazoned in red and gold on the coach door. The boys waited only till the coach had passed from sight before hurrying across the road and into the woods beyond.

"What do you think that was about?" asked Rob as they continued on.

"I think they were coming for us," said Edward.

"Surely not, how can we be so important as to require four miltamen?" replied Rob incredulously.

"I don't know, but you remember what happened back at the cave," he reminded a now grim Rob. "I don't know why we should be of any interest to them, but it seems we are."

"We'll have to be cautious," remarked Rob.

Throughout the afternoon they continued keeping to the thickest woods. When they had to, they crossed open fields, but feeling exposed, Edward couldn't help looking over his shoulder nor could he throw off a sense of unease, of being followed. As evening began to fall it became harder for them to see their way and they were forced out into the open, though now they had the darkness of night to hide them.

Eventually they were unable to keep going, but dared not look for a place to sleep, so in a wooded corner of a field they hunkered down, backs against a tree.

"Do you think they will track us?" asked Edward.

"Who knows, they might," Rob replied uneasily, then added "We should take it in turns to keep watch throughout the night."

Edward agreed and took the first watch. As Rob tried to get some sleep Edward peered into the darkness. The slightest noise, the slightest movement, the shadow of a cloud crossing the fields had him on tenterhooks and he peered strenuously into the gloom, until, exhausted, he woke Rob from a fitful sleep to take his turn.

Leaning with his back pressed into the great trunk of the tree Edward closed his eyes meaning only to rest them, feeling so tense and alert he felt he would never sleep. The next thing he knew, Rob was shaking him to wakefulness as the first weak strains of daylight fell across the fields.

"We'd better get moving," Rob said, as he rubbed Strawberry down with handfuls of fresh clean grass which he tore from the ground.
Chapter 6 – Tewkesbury Docks
Stiff and hungry from their night under a tree, the boys continued their journey south east. The warm morning sun began to ease their muscles, though it did nothing for their stomachs and as the day wore on they settled into the steady, trance like state that had for so long now, become their daily activity. Across the distant fields they saw farm workers begin their daily  chores and gave them a wide birth.

Around mid-morning the boys rode up a gentle rise and reaching the brow of the hill saw Tewkesbury laid out before them. Edward had never seen anything like it. A vast, sprawling town lay before them, stretching off towards the Bristol channel. Even from a distance he could see buildings taller than any he'd seen before, some stood as high as eight stories, but the sight which caught the boy's eyes and filled them with awe and amazement was the Airship Field, which lay to the east of the town.

Tall slender towers of interwoven iron girders stood ready to anchor airships. Two vast curved backed hangars dominated one side of the Field and a small yet elegant building, dwarfed by the hangers, was for passengers to assemble before embarking upon their amazing sky bound voyages. Sitting on Strawberry's firm back they watched the round grey end of an Airship dirigible float gracefully from the closest hanger, a tiny, elegant, boat like, white painted gondola hung beneath the ship's fat bloated gas bag. Across the grass, muted by distance, came the soft whumf whumf of the huge steam engine which powered the airship's propellers.

"That's a Gargantuan class vessel." Rob informed Edward, "capable of crossing the Atlantic all the way to the Americas, or even to China."

The huge airship glided slowly towards a free mooring tower. Several other towers in the field already had smaller airships moored to them, ships bound for the Imperial dominions of Scotland, Ireland and the East Indies, or to allies in Holland and Denmark, or for the colonies in Africa and India.

The boys had stopped briefly to watch the Gargantuan class airship rise majestically up over their heads and sail off in a westerly direction to, they knew not where, though both dreamt of being on such a ship, seeing the world and seeing it from the air.

They could have sat on the hill watching airships all day but, eventually, Rob encouraged Strawberry to walk on toward the town they had travelled so far to see, and the hope of finding Uncle Billy.

Morning was turning to afternoon and the boys reached the outskirts of town. They rode through the streets of Tewkesbury, which at first were just dusty tracks packed by the passage of horse and carriage. These streets were lined with modest dwellings in brick and wood, soon, however the dirt tracks gave way to paved streets and grand houses built of stone, richly appointed squares, shady courtyards and sweeping crescents of town houses. Here the streets were thronging with people, so many people, Edward would not have believed there were this many people in the world, let alone in one single town in England.

The boys pressed on towards the docks. Now the buildings were iron framed brick and timber structures, some places of business, offices, others warehouses. Sandwiched between these, older buildings, public houses, bookshops and bakeries. Barrow boys in flat caps and britches pushed wooden barrows heaped with goods, factory girls in white bonnets and black dresses hurried to their places of employment. Fat merchants in brown derby hats haggled and bartered with each other outside their shops and warehouses. Rich young aristocrats wearing jaunty hats and brightly coloured jackets lounged outside public houses, smoking and chatting, while earnest middle class housewives hung wickerwork baskets on the crooks of their arms and went from baker to butcher and onto the greengrocers to procure their daily needs.

The two boys rode into the town square on Strawberry's broad back. A lady in a dress of bright silks and lace paraded through the market place attended by two serving girls in long black skirts. She carried a Chinese parasol and was preceded by two footmen wearing dark green jackets and shiny black riding boots while a small Yorkshire terrier with a bright red bow in its hair trotted contentedly beside her. Dirt faced children in ragged clothes ran barefoot after her only to be shooed away by the serving maids. Having ordered a footman to acquire her some oranges, the Lady took a moment to exchange a few pleasantries with a passing neighbour. Everywhere was hustle and bustle, everyone had somewhere to go and something to do.

Six red jacketed militiamen marched through the square on their way to the guard post, rifles slung high on their backs. The Constable strutted by, swinging his truncheon, a ready nod for the merchants and aristocrats, and a scowl for the beggars and the unruly. Black jacketed clerks in bowler hats wore stiff white collars and narrow black trousers and tightly laced shoes upon their feet as they trotted hurriedly to and fro between their places of employment and the bank, which stood elegantly presiding over the busy town square, its imposing marble columns and tall heavy doors voicing its importance to one and all.

"Get that old nag out of the way." A barrow boy shouted at Edward and Rob as they sat gaping open mouthed at the scene before them. "Can't yous see there's people trying to get on their business?"

Sliding off Strawberry's broad back Rob led the horse through the crowd and down a quieter side street.

"I wonder how we get to the docks from here?" he mused as yet another barrow boy, his cart piled high with stuffed sacks pushed passed.

"You want the docks?" the boy called over his shoulder, "follow me, you can't miss 'em."

With some difficulty Rob led Strawberry and Edward followed, down the street after the barrow boy and in a moment the ally opened out into a wide avenue which led down to the wide calm waters of the canal. Here the buildings were all loading yards and warehouses with wide entrances, and doors built high up in the walls, each with it's own lifting gantry. Course brown sacks with large black words stencilled on their sides contained weights of sugar or potatoes, vegetables, corn, cloth, coffee and every manner of goods imaginable. These sacks were hoisted up on wooden platforms for storing or lowered down to the waiting barrow boys. Warehousemen in dull brown coats, tallied sacks and boxes, crates and containers of every shape and size, steam carts and horse carts waited patiently to be loaded, everywhere the atmosphere was one of an efficient bustle of things being done. In the distance the whistling of trains could be heard as they pulled into Tewkesbury railway station and the air was full of the strange smells of spices, steam and dust.

"Get out the way." A belligerent steam car driver shouted at the boys as yet again they found themselves unwittingly in someone's path.

"We need to get rid of the horse," said Rob.

"What! old Strawberry?" protested Edward over the noise of the dockside traffic.

"Well she's getting in everyone's way, and were here now, in Tewkesbury," Rob pointed out.

Edward, who had become somewhat attached to the old horse, reluctantly agreed and they led Strawberry into the very next stable yard they came to. Entering through an arched gateway they came to a halt in a straw strewn space with high brick walls. Horse boxes lined the sides of the yard and at one end stood a coach house, its doors open enough to allow the boys a glimpse of the gleaming vehicles within.

"What do you two want?" a tall thin man with a large moustache and even larger sideburns called out as he strode toward them.

"Please Sir, we want to sell our horse," said Edward.

The man narrowed his eyes suspiciously giving both the boys and Strawberry a good look over.

"I see," he said, scratching his unshaven chin. "And just where did you steal this old bag of bones from then eh?"

"We didn't steal her," Edward protested. "Strawberry is our horse, but now we're in Tewkesbury we've no further need of her. What will you give us for her Sir?"

"Strawberry eh," said the coachman approaching the beast and looking her over he felt her legs and looked in her mouth. As was her nature she stood patiently throughout this ordeal.

"I'll give you two pound and not a shilling more," he announced. "That's a weeks wages to you two."

Edward looked to Rob, Strawberry was, by rights, his horse.

"Well what do you think?" asked Edward.

"We don't know if it's a fair price or not, but it's two pounds and we're rid of a burden," replied Rob. "Very well Sir, you have a deal." And so it was that a moment later the boys were back out on the dockside two pounds richer and one horse lighter.

"Least ways we can get some breakfast now," remarked Rob.

They sauntered along the canal watching the longboats chug past on murky green water. Steam barges whistled and horse barge bells rang as boats past each other. Iron framed steam cranes hissed and wheezed as they raised great loads of goods from barge holds and deposited them on the dockside for the waiting merchants.

"well this looks like a good place to start looking for Billy," said Edward. Rob agreed and the boys began by asking everyone they saw if they knew of Billy Badger. They asked dockmen and porters, barrow boys and foremen, washer women and barmaids all without luck. Eventually they found themselves at the end of the docks and began working their way back the way they'd come.

Just as they were beginning to give up any hope of meeting anyone who had even heard of Billy, let alone knew where to find him, they chanced across a sailor smoking a pipe while sat on a goods bale which was all sewn up in a course hessian bag. He wore a blue sailor's beret and blue and white shirt with white cotton britches which reached just below his knee. His unshod feet dangled over the bale and he gazed across the canal waters with a thoughtful look in his eye.

"Billy Badger you say?" he repeated Rob's question slowly and drew on his pipe.

"well now let me see, Billy, Billy, Billy," he stroked his whiskery beard and puffed on his pipe again. "Now that name does seem to ring a bell. Where have I heard it before? Was it the Dog and Duck? or perhaps the Red Lion on the Bristol Road? Now wait a minute I'm sure it will come to me."

"Ah yes," the sailor cried jumping from his bale. "Now I remembers, just follow me young fellow me lads," and with that he trotted off away up the docks with out a backward glance.

"We'd better follow him quick," said Rob, eager for the information the fellow clearly had, and began running after him. Edward was forced to follow.

The sailor didn't run far, he dived into the nearest public house and when the boys caught up with him he was leaning casually on the well worn bar.

"I believe my memory requires a little oiling if its to recall the last known location of Billy Badger," said the sailor with a wide grin on his leathery sea worn face, a grin which showed two or three tobacco stained teeth at the front and one or two gold ones at the back.

"I knew it," said Edward. "It's just a cheep trick to get a free drink out of us."

"Well I'm feeling thirsty myself," mused Rob, "and it couldn't do us harm to invite our new friend to share a drop of ale with us," he added.

Once they were all ensconced in the cosy corner of the pub where the sailor had insisted they sat, and once he had had a good swig from his tankard and slowly wiped the froth from his long moustaches and sighed with satisfaction he said, "I'll tell you where you're most likely to find Billy Badger, it's right here in this pub, the Rose and Crown. He'll be in here any time soon I'll wager, if he's on regular business today."

He looked at the boys then said, "We could while away the time with a game of cards if you like. Do you good fellows know any good cards?" he asked innocently.

Edward and Rob did know cards. While Edward was fairly new to them, Rob had been playing with the Badger Gang since he was old enough to hold five cards in his hand and knew his way around several games commonly wagered over.

"Not really," said Rob giving Edward a meaningful look.

"Well I know an entertaining game of chance, that if we were to play for a few pennies wager would be all the more exciting and entertaining to the prize, gentlemen. Would you care for me to explain it?" He fanned a tattered pack of cards on the table in front of him, flipped the pack, and riffled the cards with his thumb.

"Now what do you say lads?"

"Well we shouldn't really," said Rob doubtfully, "But I suppose one little game couldn't hurt."

It wasn't long before a small heap of change had piled up on the table between them, all the players were exhibiting good skills and a second round of drinks was ordered as they settled into the sport of it. As the day grew late the three players were joined by two more sailors, who were friends of the first. In the gaslight glow cheep cigar and pipe smoke hung in the air and leisurely looped round the heads of the players. The table, sticky with spilt ale, held a pile of coins and each player had a serious, though worn, expression on his face.

The largest pile of coins sat in front of Rob who had done well during the play. Edward was about even, but the sailor's were each down some. The boys would have cashed in and left with their winnings earlier if it hadn't been for the held out prospect of meeting Billy Badger, but as the evening wore on this looked less and less likely. Both Edward and Rob were now somewhat worse for the drink and Edward began to think it was a good time to get out of the game and find somewhere to hole up for the night.

"Well Nelson," Edward addressed their new friend.

"Aye, named for the great man his self," replied Nelson his words a little slurred from the ale.

"I'm just about done in. I think Rob and I must be on our way," said Edward.

"Now yous can't just go leaving without giving us a chance to win back our losses," insisted Nelson, pointing at the boys with the stem of his pipe. "That just wouldn't be right."

"No, well we have to go anyway," Edward replied firmly.

"Aye well as we may get a chance to win it back another day then," said Nelson grinning at the other two sailors. "I think we'll get our chance to have a crack back at them don't you agree boys?" the other sailors nodded and grinned back.

"Look lets have one last drink then and and we can all be friends," suggested Nelson.

The boys agreed, as this seemed their only chance of getting away and finding somewhere they could safely rest the night, and a moment latter Nelson returned from the bar with another round of ale in wooden pint pots.

"These are the king's ales boys," Nelson told them swinging his across the table. "Seems as how it's by his grace we have money in our pockets an all. To the king, the Emperor, to Victor the third and his health."

Everyone clacked their tankards together and took a deep swig. "And to the Rose and Crown for having wooden bottomed tankards." Nelson toasted further, a toast which seemed a little strange to Edward, but what did he know of sailor's ways?

"And I don't suppose you fine fellows have secured yourselves billets for tonight in old Tewkesbury town?" asked Nelson.

"We've got something sorted out, don't you worry," Edward told him. "A nice room, cheep but clean, over on..." He struggled to recall any road he'd seen in Tewkesbury that had cheep boarding houses on them.

"Would it be over Hanover Street way?" asked Nelson innocently.

"That's it. Mrs. Maldoon's fine establishment for young men," said Edward doing his best to fabricate something plausible.

"Well now I think I've got you there Gentlemen," Nelson pounced.

"Seems as there is no Hanover Street in Tewkesbury. I'll be bound you're on the streets tonight. So why not come with us to our nice cosy boat and you can have a bed there with us," offered Nelson.

"Now what's the game here?" asked Rob suddenly. "I've heard about you lot, press gangs and what have you. What tricks are you up to now."

"Don't go getting all excited," Nelson reassured Rob. "Look I'll level with you caus I like you. First I've never heard of Billy Badger. Second if you look in your cups you'll see a nice bright shiny new Shilling, that's the king's Shilling that is and you have contracted to the Navy by the act of acceptance, it's all lawful and everything," Nelson grinned evilly at them. "And to top it all we're going to help carry you home to our lovely warm boat where you can sleep it off."

Rob tried to stand up but he was trapped between the wall, the bench he was sitting on and the table, blocked in by one of the sailors. As he struggled to free himself from the trap Nelson pulled a short black sinister object from his pocket and tapped Rob one on the back of his head. Edward watched as Rob fell unconscious on the table scattering his winnings everywhere and was about to protest himself, when the world went black.
Chapter 7 – Aboard the S.S Dauntless
Edward's head ached. He struggled to open his eyes and when he did so, found the ceiling to be moving. The ceiling? He hadn't slept under a roof for some time, roof? what roof was this? Then it came flooding back to him, the card game, the sailor Nelson and the press gang. He tried to sit up but the bed he was laying on swung violently. He struggled more and was thrown right out of bed to the hard wooden floor.

He sat up, rubbed his bruised elbows and looked about him. He was in a large wooden room, a little light came through the portholes and an open doorway at the far end. Along both sides of the room hammocks were hung from wooden beams which also formed the ribs of the ship. Several of these were still occupied by sleeping forms, but most were now empty. The occupied hammocks all swung slowly first one way then gently back and the unsteadiness of the floor beneath him, told Edward that the boat he was on, was already in motion.

He felt both sick and hungry at the same time and also suffered that pressing need which comes to all upon waking. He struggled to his feet, intent on first finding Rob, then some relief. He'd just got his feet under him when a figure darkened the doorway and a familiar voice boomed our.

"Right ladies, you've all had a nice little rest this night. Your in the Navy now and the British Navy expects the best from every man jack of you. Get out of your beds and on to that deck double time." Nelson strode down the room tipping unfortunates from their string roosts and in a moment the room was filled with groaning youths rubbing their heads and protesting at their treatment.

Pulling Edward to his feet Nelson propelled him towards the door. Edward staggered out in to a locker lined corridor. Beyond the lockers stood the ships' heads where the boys gratefully relieved themselves before climbing the wooden stairs at the far end and stepping out into the cold bright sunlight of a morning on the Atlantic ocean.

This was Edwards first sight of the sea. He'd heard about it of course, but the immense open flatness of it, the unbelievably far horizon and the the lack of any landmark quite took his breath away. He felt a wrenching in his guts and was soon leaning over the ship's side emptying his stomach. There was scattered, nervous laughter from some of the boys, while others joined Edward at the rail.

"Right you lot, lets get lined up shall we?" Nelson shouted at the assembly. Two ratings in the white trousers and blue shirts of the Royal Navy began pushing and prodding the new recruits into a straight line.

Once there was order amongst the recruits, Nelson began shouting. "You are now ratings in His Majesty's Imperial Navy and as such you will conduct yourselves appropriately at all times. You will be orderly and disciplined and you will obey your orders unquestioningly. In return his gracious Majesty will reward you with a salary of one pound two shillings and six pence a week, three square meals a day, and a tot of rum. The Navy will clothe and shelter you and I will train you into the most formidable fighting force on the seven seas. Any questions?"

Edward had a few questions, amongst them, how come he was a sailor now?  But he suspected this was not the time nor place to voice them.

"No questions? Good. You will all now be issued with regulation uniform and will be required to sign for it." Nelson instructed them.

"Some of you may be wondering how it is your in the Navy now. No doubt you fully expected to wake up in the warm bosom of the family home to the tender ministerings of your sweet little white haired old mums. Let me assure you that in accordance with the law you all walked of your own volition, on your own two feet, up the gangway, albeit many of you with a little help." He laughed. "you all took the king's coin and you've all signed the contract."

The two ratings began handing out uniforms to the waiting recruits and as they did so an officer in white britches, blue top coat and a tricorn hat approached, accompanied by an old sailor.

"Hattention, officer on deck." Nelson called spying the officer.

"Good morning men. I'm lieutenant Arthbuckle. I will be overseeing the assignment of duties and basic ship's orientation. You are standing on the training deck of the SS Dauntless. She is a 22000 ton Class II iron clad Imperial Frigate. She has a steel sub-frame, and a wooden hull coppered below the waterline, with iron cladding capable of stopping a 22 inch shell. She has two 44 inch fore guns, eight 22 inch guns on each side and depth charges both fore and aft. Her 55,000 horse power Wincannon Marine steam engines are capable of speeds up to 45 knots per hour and she has some limited sail capacity provided by the fore and aft masts. We are currently headed for Colonies in the Caribbean and southern British Columbia a journey which the Dauntless is capable of doing in just six days at full speed, however we are on patrol for Spanish, French and Pirate ships. We will be joining the third fleet under the command of Admiral Latham Stoakhampton, in three days time, just north of the Canary Islands.

You will all now under go basic Naval training during which time I will assess which posts you will be filling once your training is completed. Meanwhile you are under the direct command of Petty Officer Nelson. Mr. Nelson." Lieutenant Arthbuckle turned to Nelson.

"Right you lot, you heard the officer. It's my job to knock you into shape, and into shape you will be knocked. Place your uniforms in a neat row over by those barrels then double time back here and strip." Nelson ordered as the Lieutenant walked off.

The boys raced over to the spot and left their uniforms in a row and jogged back to the line. There was some confusion about the order to strip but they soon got the idea when the ratings began to roughly disrobe one of the recruits and moments later the boys were all standing shivering and naked on the deck.

"In the Navy we have high standards of hygiene," Nelson informed them blithely and with that the ratings turned a ships hose on the recruits and began hosing down them down.

The cold water was a shock to Edwards' body, he danced and jigged and dodged with other recruits till Nelson saw fit to turn the hoses off. Now miserable, shivering and dripping wet the boys were ordered to dry off and dress in their uniforms. As no effort had been made to match man with size for his uniform there was a certain amount of dealing and swapping amongst them. Never the less there were one or two boys who had a shirt two sizes too small or trousers three sizes too big.

Over the next few days the new recruits found themselves running round the entire ship's deck, lifting weights, learning the location of important places like the galley and the arsenal. They were drilled in the basics of ships terminology, Naval practices and marine gunnery.

Though it was physically demanding and often gruelling Edward and Rob found they didn't entirely dislike it. There was a kind of delight to be had in proving physical prowess, in mastery over the new terms and ideas they were being introduced to, and though they collapsed each night in their hammocks and fell instantly into deep and dreamless sleep, though they woke each day feeling drained and sore, they exhibited aptitude for their tasks and took pride in their new abilities.

On March 5rd The Dauntless rendezvoused with the third fleet and proceeded out into the Atlantic heading for anchorage at Baytown which stood on the contested border between the British free state of Houston and French Louisiana, where the fleet was to blockade the French Colonial port of New Orleans.

The following day the new recruits were assembled on the training deck for Lieutenant Arthbuckle's inspection. Just four days training had made all the difference. The rag tag collection of men which had presented on the first day was gone, and in their place a tired but disciplined force, not yet practised in the Naval arts of war, but prepared and ready, blank canvases for the Imperial Royal Navy to write upon.

Lieutenant Arthbuckle moved up the line slowly asking each boy a few questions until it came to Edward's turn.

"Name?"

"Edward Black." replied Edward.

"Can you read or write?" asked the Lieutenant and he was already making a mark when Edward responded. "Yes Sir."

"Oh?" Lieutenant Arthbuckle raised and eyebrow but said nothing as he altered his records.

"Can you count?" he asked.

"A little." replied Edward. "I know money."

"Very good, very good. And do you have skills?"

"Skills Sir, I don't know."

"Can you do anything boy?"

"Well I know steam engines Sir. I ran the steam engine at the Orphanage, and I can set and cast a loom." Edward offered doubtfully.

"I see, I see." the Lieutenant sucked thoughtfully at the tip of the feather quill he was using to write with, before jotting down a further note.

Later, over supper, Edward and Rob were sitting squashed in the galley with the other new ratings enjoying beef stew and dumplings with a tankard of dark ale which was the evenings fare.

"So what job did you get?" asked Edward as he wiped up the last drops of greasy gravy with a bread crust.

"Marine gunner." Rob answered round a mouthful of stew. "What about you?"

"Abay Operator." replied Edward.

"What's that?" asked Rob. "Most of the lads are gunners or engine crew."

"I'm not sure, it's something to do with the ships navigation and manifest. I'm to begin training tomorrow after Marine training."

The following day after having been introduced to the finer arts of repelling borders with cutlass and hook the new ratings went to their assigned posts. For Edward this meant an exploration into a part of the ship which had until now been off limits for the ratings. Following his instructions he found the corridor that led to the helm, walked passed the polished oak doors until he came to one marked ABAE navigational. He knocked smartly and entered.

An officer stood inside the oak panelled room, while a seaman sat at a cramped control panel. The main part of the room being occupied by a large brass mechanism. It appeared to be made of a large number of brass and steel poles each of which having a number of small brass cogs mounted on it. As Edward watched the poles turned like the mad mechanics of an impossible watch clicking clockwise, then anti-clockwise, some times a pole would lift up one cog while others dropped down one cog. All the time the machine clicked and whirred and hissed and gave off little spurts of steam. The seaman continually manipulated controls which were laid out before him. A series of keys with letters and number on them, several small brass wheels and various tiny levers. From time to time a section of the machine cranked into life and a neat printed sheet of paper slid out of a slot to the seaman's right.

"Ah rating Black." The young officer said spotting Edward.

"Rating Black reporting for duty Sir." Edward said, as he'd been instructed.

"I hear you have some experience of the weaving industry." remarked the officer.

"I have experience with looms, yes, Sir." replied Edward somewhat perplexed by this.

"Good, that may come in useful. Anyway let me explain to you what were doing and what this piece of old junk here is." the officer's voice began to fill with enthusiasm for his favourite subject.

"I should mention I'm lieutenant Johnny Clayton and I'm officer in charge of the Dauntless' Advanced Babbage Analytical Engine, or Abby as we like to call her. She's this magnificent mechanism you see before you. First designed by Charles Babbage in 1845 and later modified in 1899 for Naval use by Lord Admiral Ozymandious Treshingbourn then Fleet Admiral to the Empress Victoria. She, that is Abby, not her Imperial Majesty, has over 35,000 moving parts, stands twelve feet high and weighs twenty two tons. She can perform up to seventy five calculations a minute, can you imagine that boy? Seventy five calculations a minute? What that means? It means this machine is far far more clever than you.

"As you'll have noticed from your familiarity with Jacquard loom technology, the punch card reader is over there, it's where we feed her the necessary instructions. You can see this is a complex and delicate machine and like any lady, she needs constant attention. Seaman Jones will show you the ropes, or in our case the rags and oils." Lieutenant Clayton laughed at his own joke.

"The first thing to remember." Jones told him. "Is never touch her when this little flag is down." He indicated a small brass rectangle with the word 'Calculating' stamped into the metal and painted red in the grooves. Next to it several small numbered dials slowly clicked round indicating estimated time till completion.

"I know you loom workers. You try to leap in while the things still going. Never do that with Abby here, not only'll she nip off a finger tip for you, but she's well delicate, and you'll be all night cleaning your own blood and bone out of her. Clear?"

Edward indicated he was clear on this point. Both lieutenant Clayton and Seaman Jones seemed friendly and pleasant to Edward, Sure Jones was a rough cut Seaman with plenty of experience under his belt, but beneath it he was a quick and intelligent man. The lieutenant was devoted to, and passionate about, the machine he was in command of and had an endless enthusiasm for all its aspects.

Over the next few weeks Edward came to know and understand Abby's inner workings. The work was, if anything, much easier and less dangerous than the looms and while he stood rag in hand waiting for the calculating flag to go up Edward watched Jones' manipulation of the mechanism and learnt quite a lot about Abby's operations. Navel training brought him and Rob together in the mornings. Their cutlass work, unarmed fighting and gunnery improved daily, and the two boys were evenly matched with a sword.

They days grew warmer and warmer as the fleet cruised into the the clear blue waters of the Caribbean, and when they could find the time from their duties the boys would sit at the prow of the boat and look for dolphins which frequently ran ahead of the ship dancing and diving as if leading the way to some elfin paradise.

On the 12th of April the fleet dropped anchor at Castle Harbour on the British Island of Bermuda where it took on supplies. Several Merchant vessels had arrived with the fleet and some had been waiting for it, so when the fleet hauled anchor a week later the flotilla was much increased in size. Now the fleet turned towards the Bahamas before entering the Gulf of Mexico.

By the 21st of April the third fleet was a day out of Nichols Town on the north point of the Bahamas when a French convoy was spotted around three o'clock in the afternoon. Edward was in the stuffy ABAE cabin waiting for the day's fuel usage printing when the alarm was raised. As he'd been trained he ran to the battery counter on the gunnery deck where it was his job to turn the small brass dials which told Abby when a shell had been fired. He knew, because Jones had explained it to him, that a target ship's distance, speed and direction would be fed into Abby from the helm and above each gun the angle and rotation of the weapon would be given in a small brass window thus ensuring the maximum efficiency for each and everyone of the Dauntless shells.

From his post it wasn't easy to see what was going on. As there was no shelling Edward crept off his post and look a peek through a near gun port. Far of in the distance he could just about make out a small line of ships, the gleam of sun on fresh white sail canvas and the greasy pall of funnel smoke from a steam ship running on crude oil. Young gunners waited tensely for the command to fire, though the older seamen told them the enemy fleet was too far off to engage.

The minutes turned into an hour and it became increasingly clear that  Admiral Stoakhampton intended to neither give chase to, or open fire on, the enemy fleet and after two hours the order to stand down was given. Edward and Rob ran to the rails to watch the last of the French fleet disappear unhindered over the horizon.

"That's a pity." Rob mused. "We almost had our first chance at battle there."

"Do we really want that?" asked Edward.

"Cause we do Eddy. The chance to prove ourselves men, to experience the heat of battle, a medal each eh? After all these weeks of training I'm eager to put it to some good use."

"That's the spirit lad." a passing officer overhearing his words came across and clapped a hand on Rob's shoulder. "The British Navy needs lads like you, trained and ready to fight for the King. You'll go far no doubt lad."

The following day the fleet dropped anchor just off Nichols Town. Edward could see a small outpost of colourful brick and wood buildings clinging to the shore line. Beneath the iron hull of the Dauntless, clear waters allowed him an extraordinary view of the white sandy seabed over which shoals of silvery fish flashed. The big excitement of the day was the arrival of an airship over the fleet. This was not one of the fat bagged gargantuan merchant vessels which Edward and Rob had seen at Tewkesbury, nor was it one of the grey high altitude bomber ships which were the terror of regular sea going ships. This was a sleet packet airship. It's gas bag a long aerodynamic cigar shape, the small gondola nothing more than a light and efficient steam engine with a small cabin stuck on its front. This airship was built for speed and speed alone. The black gondola with red crest indicated an Imperial Agent was aboard.

The talk in the galley was of a change of orders. Why else would an Imperial Agent meet the fleet here rather than the Canaries? Unless he was delivering sealed orders, orders from the Emperor himself? Others, however, suspected a more sinister reason. Rumour had it the Emperor was looking for a spy, and not just any spy, a special spy, though no one knew what made the spy so special. It was thought the spy might be aboard the fleet, possibly having boarded a ship at either Bristol or Liverpool. Three ships in the fleet had joined from Liverpool and two from Bristol, the SS Intrepid, a huge iron hulled vessel taking two hundred and fifty thousand tons in its draft, and the SS Dauntless.

"We took on a few at Bristol didn't we Nelson?" A seaman asked the grizzly old sea dog.

"Ay we did that, and if there's a spy amongst them then I'm Queen of England." He told the men. "No doubt it's a change of orders, or perhaps the Admiral's forgot his favourite wig." he joked, raising laughter from the men.
Chapter 8 – The relief of Port Arthur
The fleet entered the Gulf of Mexico and headed for Baytown in the British Free state of Houston, in preparation for the relief of Port Arthur, which stood on the disputed British French border. As the Dauntless was one of only three ships in the fleet with a shallow enough draft to enter the Sabine pass it was despatched immediately to begin the bombardment of Port Arthur. On 28th April the Dauntless steamed through the Pass and onto the Sabine Lake itself, and making good time, had Port Arthur in range of its guns by the early afternoon.

The atmosphere on board the Dauntless was tense as she steamed, peacefully enough, across the placid lake waters. Cannon shells were checked, gun barrels cleaned, the men stood ready and poised at their positions. By two o'clock the town was in range and at fifteen minutes past the hour the order was given to begin shelling.

The first cannon cracked loud, gunpowder smoke drifted across the gun deck. A few seconds later a bright flash of light could be seen close to the town and a moment later, the bang of the exploding shell was heard. Edward flicked the shell counter for the gun just fired. For the next five hours, every four seconds a gun on the Dauntless fired and the town began to burn.

As daylight fell the bombardment was suspended for the night. Edward's ears rang with the noise of it for hours afterwards, but the first few moments of quiet were joyful to him. Across the calm lake waters, fires burnt brightly, above the town the night stars were blackened by the thick pall of smoke which rose from the destruction. Watching from the rail Edward wondered what it was all about, if it was all worth it.

"We've got to show these Frenchies it's the British Empire they're messing with," a seaman told him. "We're taking back Port Arthur."

"But we've completely destroyed it," Edward pointed out.

"Aye, well better that, than have it fall into French hands lad," he was told.

The bombardment did not continue the following day, instead, at first light the crew of the Dauntless were roused and all spare seamen were ordered to board a troop barge which had drawn alongside during the night. This included Edward and Rob. A palpable excitement could be felt as they joined marine troops, who had been brought up from Baytown under cover of darkness. As ratings, Edward and Rob were not issued with firearms and they looked enviously on at the troops who were armed with pistols and rifles.

As the first light of dawn began to creep over the distant hills the barge pulled slowly away from the Dauntless and towards the shore line. As they approached the edge of the town the troops were ordered to keep their heads down to avoid French sharp shooters, but the barge continued steadily across the water until it had almost reached the harbour. The previous day's shelling had damaged the docks, though the solid stone keys were still sound, many of the wooden buildings in the dock area had been completely destroyed.

The barge slipped closer to its moorings and four seamen took up position fore and aft to cast the ropes to the dock, just at that moment, the first enemy shot rang out, and one of the seamen crumpled up and fell back into the barge amongst the startled troop. The shouting began. Suddenly group leaders were calling orders, the barge banged into the dockside and the first wave of troops leapt over the side and ran for cover amongst damaged buildings and piles of rubble before the vessel was even secured to the wharf. A second group of troops took possession of the dockside and began returning fire on the town as the barge was made fast.

Things were happening very quickly for Edward. His group were ordered off the barge and led at a fast trot across open ground to the partial cover offered by the side of a building. After moving stealthily along the damaged wall of the building they turned into a street which led inland and Edward's squad moved towards the town square. As they passed a cross roads Edward saw a similar squad moving up a street parallel to the one he was on. It seemed to Edward there was little resistance, the occasional shot rang out, much shouting, but so far he'd not seen one solitary Frenchman. As they moved deeper into enemy territory it became clear their objective was a small stone fort which dominated the west side of Port Arthur.

Coming into the deserted town square, of which the fort formed one side, Edward's group suddenly came under heavy fire. Everyone ran for cover and he found himself crouched behind an overturned cart with Rob at his side.

"What do we do now?" asked Edward.

"Wait I guess," was Rob's reply.

Edward looked round at the destruction which had been delivered the previous day by the Dauntless' guns. As was to be expected the wooden buildings had take the most damage, many of them burnt to the ground leaving stark fingers of blackened wood pointing aimlessly skyward. Brick and stone building had faired better, though there were few glazed windows left in town, and some buildings remained, inexplicably untouched. The debris strewn streets stayed deserted.

A sharp crack sounded off the back of the cart which they hid behind.

"I think we're being shot at," said Edward.

"Keep yourself under cover, it's probably just a ricochet," replied Rob.

A squad of troops arrived on the far side of the town square and began returning fire on the fort. It seemed there was resistance from a French unit operating mainly from the south tower of the fort. For an hour or so shots were exchanged across the town square but there was little progress on either side. Just as Edward was beginning to think a deadlock had been reached a dark shadow fell across the square. Looking up he saw an airborne warship.

The sleek grey craft manoeuvred gracefully through the air, sailing towards the fort and, once in position, began raining incendiaries on the south side of the fort. Bright orange flames licked the stone walls and black oily smoke rose from the battlements. The warship turned slowly rising above the destruction it had wreaked and drifted back, away from the fort, its deadly work done. A lone figure could been on the airships' gantry, a flag held in each hand he signalled to the troops below. The order to advance was given and Edward and Rob found themselves racing with the other soldiers for the burning doors that stood between them and the liberation of the fort.

An enterprising Navel officer had organised some of his men to create a makeshift battering ram from a roof beam and rope. The large wooden doors had suffered greatly from the  bombardment and now burnt fearcely. They soon gave way to the battering ram's insistent knock. The doors collapsed in a crash of sparks and flying wood. Troops rushed in through the breached doors and the fort was once again in British hands.

The fort was filled with running and shouting as officer's ordered a search for the enemy, valuables and supplies. Edward and Rob were assigned to a search squad led by a keen young Petty Officer Rawson who, eager for a chance at the Frenchies, took the squad racing up the south-west tower and on to the battlements. Drawing their cutlasses the five men trotted towards the south corner where the French resistance had last been seen.

To Edward the battlements appeared deserted. Stone chips, ash and burning wood littered the walkway and acrid smoke from the warship's incendiary attack filled their nostrils and brought tears to their eyes. As he stepped carefully around the burning debris Edward failed to notice the figure crouched in the smoke until it was too late. A  knife wielding Frenchie with a soot streaked face and a rictus grin leapt at him through the smoke.

Instinctively Edward brought his cutlass to bear, narrowly deflecting the the French blade but the power of the blow was enough to knock Edward off his balance. He stumbled, tried to keep his footing, and tripped on a block of wood sending himself over backwards. Seeing Edward go down the Frenchman spun around and sprang at a figure in the smoke. Edward struggled to get back to his feet and hearing a gurgled scream, ran towards the cry. He saw a sailor clutching his arm as the Frenchman stood over him poised to deliver the fatal blow. With a shout Edward brought his cutlass up as the Frenchman, hearing him, turned. Edward thrust violently at the French soldier knocking the knife from his hand and piercing him through the chest in a single blow. The Frenchman staggered back and collapsed dead on the ground.

To Edward it seemed as if the whole thing had happened in a moment. And in that moment he'd saved one man's life, and taken another's. The other sailors gathered around Edward to congratulate him on his kill. Not least enthusiastic was Petty Officer Rawson who'd been stabbed in the arm by the dead Frenchman.

"You'll get a medal for this no doubt boy." Rawson told him.

After congratulations, the cleaning up which followed was morbidly gruesome. Edward removed his blade from the dead man's body and then, with Rob's aid, carried the body down the tower to the courtyard below.  For the next few days sailors from the Dauntless were occupied with clearing the fort. As the only available garrison force in the area the S.S. Dauntless was left with minimal crew under the command of the First Officer, while the Captain took up residency in the fort along with the majority of his men.

The crew of the Dauntless were to await the return of the Fifth Battalion to relieve them, following an assault on the town of Lake Charles forty miles or so to the east. During this time Port Arthur remained under military rule. Guards were posted at the docks and the market. For the most part Edward found himself on duty at the market, which had it's benefits. While keeping a sharp eye on the good citizens of Port Arthur to ensure that none of them were Frenchies in disguise, he had time to flirt with the local girls and accept gifts from or make deals with the local merchants.

This is the good life, Edward thought to himself as he leant against a market stall and bit into a juicy red apple. The sun shining, a pretty girl in pale blue skirts smiled shyly at him as she walked passed basket on arm. The cry of the baker's boy selling from a hot tray of fresh pastries. Here he was in fascinating new lands miles from the orphanage and it's cloistered outlook, experiencing new and exciting things, experiencing the richness of life. To Edward's knowledge things couldn't get any better than this. Though a long cool dip in the lake could add further to his contentment he imagined. Yes, he was feeling rather hot and sticky, now he thought about it, a dip in the lake would be just the thing.

The solution to his problem seemed to present itself in the form of Petty Officer Rawson who, due to his wounds, was relieved of duties for the time being.

"Hey Rawson," Edward called across the market place.

"Seaman Black," Rawson waved and strode over.

"How's the arm?" asked Edward.

"Better everyday, but you know, keeping me off duties for a while longer," he grinned at Edward.

"I wondered," Edward said carefully, "If you wouldn't cover for me a half hour, so I can take a quick dip in the lake? It's been terrible hot here all afternoon."

"Well I guess I can do you a favour," Rawson agreed amiably to the request. "Not too long though, the Duty Sergeant will be round in an hour."

"I'll be back before that," Edward called over his shoulder as he jogged towards the dark cool waters of the lake. At the dockside, one of the piers had been taken over by the men as a place to relax. Those who could swim made races to a pontoon moored a hundred feet off shore, while those who could not, sat paddling their feet or standing chest deep in the water. Edward stripped off his clothes and jumped in the shallow water, splashing the other men.

"Oy watch it," they shouted, splashing him as he stood up and shook the water from his hair. 

He larked about in the water for a few minutes while cooling off, before returning to his clothes. Edward sat on the warm quayside stone, drying off in the sunshine, when a seaman flopped down next to him.

"This is a bit of change from the decks of the Dauntless," the seaman said, rummaging through clothes he'd left near Edward's. As he did so he noticed Edwards leather pouch.

"What's this then sea mate?" he asked, dangling the pouch on its leather thong.

"Just a keep sake," Edward said casually, holding out his hand.

"Is that so?" the seaman smirked. "Got a lock of hair have we? A cameo? Is she a beauty or a dog?" as he spoke his fingers deftly opened the pouch and he took a look inside.

"Now what have we here?" the seaman teased, then looking in the bag frowned. "What do we have here indeed?"

"That's mine, give it back," Edward said, a note of annoyance and anger entering his voice.

"This is a mighty fine ring for a press-ganged seaman to be owning," the seaman said. 

Edward lunged at him and grabbed the pouch. The seaman kept a tight hold and the two of them fell to rolling around as they wrestled for possession. At that moment an officer came walking around the corner of the demolished Chandlers and caught the two sailors locked in combat.

"What's going on here? Break it up you two, we don't want to be setting an example to the locals," The officer shouted, then, when his words had little effect, he ordered a couple of sailor's, who were standing idly by enjoying the show, to break up the fight.

"What's this about then?" the officer asked.

"Nothing Sir," Edward said quickly, "Just horsing about."

"I see. And what's this?" the officer stepped forward and took the pouch and ring from the seaman's hand.

"Personal property Sir," Edward volunteered.

The officer looked at the objects first inspecting the ring and then the pouch from which he pulled Edward's mysterious letter. He looked at it then placed both items back in the pouch.

"And who claims ownership of this?" he asked.

"I do Sir," Edward confessed.

"I'm perplexed in my reasoning, that a humble seaman could have such a ring legitimately in his possession," the officer remarked. "I think you'd both better come with me," he allowed them a moment to finish dressing before having them escorted to the fort.

"I fear I'm forced to put you both under lock and key while I consider this problem," the officer said as they entered the fort's small prison and were thrust into a cell.

"This is a fine circumstance," the seaman said accusingly.

"Don't look at me," Edward replied huffily, "No one asked you to go poking through their belongings. Indeed, I should give you a proper beating for doing so, and landing us in this mess."

"You can try if you like, but I warn you, I give no quarter," replied the other, balling his fists up ready for a fight.

"I should, but chance it will land us in more trouble," Edward responded gloomily and sank, head in hands, on the cold stone shelf that served as both seat and bed in the cell.

After a while the seaman relaxed a little and came and sat on the bench. "So how did you get that ring?" he asked.

"It was given to me by my Mother, or so I'm told," said Edward.

"That's a very posh ring, that is," the seaman remarked. "Nice an' heavy like, plenty of gold in it. If you say your Ma gave it you, I believe," he said in a tone that belittled his sincerity.

They'd sat in silence a while when Edward heard footsteps coming down the prison stairs. It was Rob, questioning concern written on his face.

"Hey, Eddy, what have you got yourself into?" Rob asked, scowling at the seaman, so he'd obviously heard how it had happened.

"Listen Rob," Edward stood up and walked over to the bars. Lowering his voice he said "They found this ring I have. I've always had. I didn't tell you about it because, well, I never told anyone. There's something about it that's trouble I fear. I think someone is looking for it and they'll kill to get it. I mean, I don't know, but people know you and me are good friends, you might be in danger that's all. Keep an eye on your back," Edward warned.

"Look don't worry. It was just a fight," Rob said. "Happens all the time, a lashing and you'll be out in no time."

"I'm not sure," Edward said doubtfully, "just keep your eyes open is all."

The afternoon wore slowly on. Edward watched the bright sunlight which fell through a small barred window placed high in the stone wall. The sunbeam crept across the stone floor and began it's excruciatingly slow climb up the wall. Supper arrived on two tin plates. The prisoners might be in the lock-up but they were still in the British Navy and due their square meal. Around nine in the evening the guard came and handed out a solitary blanket each. The two felons were forced to wrap themselves up as best they could and try to get some rest.

Edward fell into a dream wracked sleep, turning to ease the cold press of the stone, first from one side, then from the other, while in his mind far off forgotten things, fractured, dim and dusty memories, danced with fresher newer impressions. In his dreams he saw the Queen of America a beautiful woman smiling down at him, bending and gently kissing him. He's lying in a bed, and painted along its side is the crest from his ring, the bed fades and becomes his bed at the orphanage, Sniderby and the Imperial Agent have taken the ring and dance around teasing him with it. He woke up with a start. Deathly cold and covered in sweat.

Shivering he flapped his blanket and wrapped it round himself again. While sitting with his back against the cold stone, trying to settle his mind, he heard a noise. A creaking and rattling, someone was opening the prison door, and none to subtly. A glance at the small window showed it to be night, but what time was it? Several sets of footsteps came down the stairs.

Edward struggled to his feet as the figures came towards him. It was the night officer and two guards.

"Edward Black. You come with me," the officer ordered as the guards opened the cell. His cell mate half woke and Edward threw his blanket over the man before walking out of the cell. It was a short walk from the jail, across the yard, to the East turret where they climbed the spiral stairs. At the battlements they didn't stop climbing, instead they continued further to the very summit of the tower, a round castellated structure with a flat wooden roof. They climbed up a ladder, through the open hatch, and on to the roof itself, where the sleek black shape of an Imperial packet airship hung darkly in the night sky. The airship was moored to a makeshift gantry. The rope railed gangplank and moorings groaned and creaked as the airship was gently tugged by the night breeze. A dark figure silhouetted in the gondola doorway, looked down at the small group.

"Is this the one?" asked the dark figure with a surprisingly light tone of voice.

"Ay, he's the one they found it on," replied the officer.

"And the artefacts?" asked the figure.

The officer handed over Edward's pouch, before forcing him across the perilous gangplank to the waiting ship. The dark figure stepped back to let him enter the confined cabin space and immediately pushed him up against the polished wooden wall.

"Hands behind your back," the figure ordered, while exerting considerable force on Edward's neck, kept him off balance. With a quick practised motion Edward's hands were firmly bound. He was pulled back towards the centre of the room, and pushed into a chair, where he fell with a whack.

Before he could catch his breath the figure cast-off the airship, made tight the hatch and powered up the engines. Right behind his head Edward could hear the shumf-a-ma-whoomf, shumf-a-ma-whoomf, of the twin piston engines turning the ships propellers, each mounted on the end of a nacelle. The airship rose gracefully away from the tower. The figure was  occupied with the controls for the next few minutes, checking dials and adjusting knobs, turning wheels and pulling levers which controlled the craft. Edward looked around the weakly lit interior of the small wooden cabin, a single flickering gas light the sole source of illumination. Against one wall a ladder went up into the hull itself, while Edward was sat on one of two chairs fixed at the back of the cabin. Immediately forward of Edward was the captain's chair, a small wall mounted desk fitted to the left wall and the controls which sat on a dashboard in front of a single large porthole. Two smaller portholes were fitted in the port and starboard sides.

Satisfied with the aircraft's settings the hooded figure spun the captain's chair around to face Edward. Placing a black boot on the edge of Edward's seat, the figure flung back her dark hood to reveal long black silky hair and a distinctly feminine face.
Chapter 9 – Lost in the desert
The woman smiled at Edward with a sense of self satisfaction, of a job well done. She looked him up and down, and appeared not to entirely disapprove of what she saw. Leaning forward and placing her hand on his knees, she said mater of factly, "So your the one who's been giving us the run-a-round."

Edward looked steadily into clear blue eyes, which slanted at the corners in a delightful way, giving her face an attractive oriental hint. Her pure white skin and ruby red lips lent a doll like aspect to her appearance. She returned his look for a moment before saying, "Ah, yes, I'm forgetting myself. We haven't been properly introduced. I'm Lady Carmine Augustus, Baronetess of Apethorpe, Agent to his Imperial Highness Victor III. You are Edward Black, or should I call you Edward Blacksteel or Edward York?" she smiled at him.

Edward was surprised. She knew his real name, so she must have traced him from the orphanage, or at least suspect him of being the same, but he'd never used York as a name. Where had she got that from? He was about to ask her when they were interrupted by a loud banging from the hull. Lady Augustus leapt from her chair as a heavy figure dropped from the roof hatch.

The tiny cabin, which had been cosy with just the two of them, was now crowded. Lady Augustus waisted not a moment however and was instantly upon the newcomer. A brief struggle ensued, but it was clear the new arrival never stood a chance. On her home ground and seemingly adept at fighting in confined spaces, she delivered a blow to the solar plexus and in a moment the intruder was bound, sitting wheezing and groaning next to Edward.

"Who do we have here then?" Lady Augustus asked, once she'd smoothed down her black silk clothes and run a hand through slightly dishevelled hair, "one of your little friends Edward?"

Looking across Edward saw his friend Rob struggling valiantly against his bonds, half rising from his chair he was pushed back into it again by the firm toe of Lady Augustus's boot. Rob gave her an angry stare and glowered menacingly at her.

"Perhaps you would be good enough to introduce us Edward?" Lady Augustus said a slight wry note in her voice.

"Lady Carmine Augustus. Robert Badger," Edward said simply.

"Ah yes, the Seaman, your known associate. I'd give up the struggle if I were you Robert. You should be dead already and it's a situation I can rectify instantly."

"Dead!" exclaimed Edward.

"Indeed Edward, or should I address you as your highness?" Lady Augustus asked mysteriously.

Edward wondered if making as little sense as this was a common trait amongst women or exclusive to Lady Augustus. Dead? Why was it the Empire wanted everyone he met dead? Who was Edward York? This had to be some sort of mistake.

"I'm not sure I follow you," Edward said flatly.

"You are Edward York," Lady Augustus said slowly and clearly as if he were an idiot.

"No I'm not. I'm Edward Blacksteel," Edward replied in the same tone.

Lady Augustus narrowed her eyes and glared at him. "You're Edward York, the ring proves it. There's no point in denying it." Lady Augustus said coldly.

"So I have Edward of York's ring then? and the letter?" he asked.

"From your Mother Elisabeth York, written in the Imperial Tongue," Lady Augustus responded. She looked at him quizzically. "You don't expect me to believe you know nothing of this, do you?"

Edward didn't respond.

A look of puzzlement crossed Carmine's face, followed by realisation, "you don't know do you?" she laughed dryly. "Oh my. You don't know who you are? I can't believe it," her attitude towards him now seemed a touch less cold and hostile.

"No, I think you're having me on. You must know..." at that moment the airship shook violently as a great crunching and a painful screech came from the port boiler. Lady Augustus was up in a moment and fighting with the airship controls. Despite her efforts the ship lurched first one way and then another. Dizzily watching the night time starscape through the front porthole Edward saw they were descending rapidly.

Lady Augustus shouted something at the two boys, but it was impossible to hear her over the noise of tortured metal and the rush of wind from the airships' erratic manoeuvres. The airship sunk low in the ten minutes it took Lay Augustus to bring the craft under some sort of control. The port engine was damped completely and it's boiler vented, the starboard engine still chugged but at a vastly reduced rate.

"Brace yourselves," Lady Augustus called out, "we're going to have a bumpy landing," a moment later the airship shuddered and a loud scrapping sound came from below. Lady Augustus released the anchors, but a moment too late, as the airship hit a tree. The occupants were thrown forward with the loud tearing, cracking, sound of trees splitting and hull timbers snapping. A long dreadful screech, followed by silence. 

The gas lamps had long blown out by the time Edward recovered consciousness, leaving him surrounded by darkness. As his eyes accustomed themselves to the night he was able to make out rough shapes. Stars shone through the porthole outlining a stark black silhouette, which he took to be the tree, or what was left of it. The floor of the gondola, or what he assumed was the floor, sat at a steep angle. After struggling a while he managed to get his hands free of the ropes which bound them. He fumbled round the cabin, first for something to lean on, then to investigate the dark shapes.

A few minutes later he'd found the door and two warm bodies and dragged them both out into the silver moonlit desert. Rob groaned as Edward propped him up against a rock and untied him. Rob rubbed his head with his hands. Lady Augustus remained still and silent.

"Is she dead you think?" Rob asked looking over at her supine body.

"I don't know. I don't think so. How do you tell?" Edward replied crouching over her.

"Does she feel warm? Is she breathing?" asked Rod.

"I think so, I think she's breathing," replied Edward.

"Probably alive then. I think we should tie her up, or we'll have trouble when she comes to," advised Rob.

Edward agreed with the proposed precaution and soon they had Lady Augustus tied hand and foot with the very ropes which had, until recently, bound them. Edward wanted to return to the airship to look for supplies but it was still too dark so they settled down and rested a while. A gentle breeze played amongst the rough strewn rocks, blowing on the scrub bush which littered the sandy desert floor and tugging at the edges of the boys clothing. A clear night sky gave them a panoramic view of the stars and a waning moon which slowly slide towards the far horizon.

"How did you get into the airship?" Edward asked, while they waited for dawn to break.

"On my way to the barracks, after an ale in the garrison mess I was, and passing the Adjutants' open window I heard your Lady here and the Duty Officer talking about you and how she was going to take you away, so I ran up the tower to her airship, sneaked in and hid in the hull. Not long after that I heard her come back. I could hear her move around in the cabin for a few minutes, then you came along and we all took off. I hadn't meant to reveal myself when I did but I slipped and caused a noise so that was it. Then she jumped me," he added with a hint of embarrassment.

"She seems very good at what she does," Edward commiserated. "I suppose she's had better training than we have."

"If that's supposed to make me feel any better about it, I still don't like being beat by a girl," said Rob. "What was she saying when I interrupted you two? Something about Edward York?"

"Yes she called me Edward York." replied a perplexed Edward.

"You don't know who Edward York is?" asked Rob.

"Not really, should I?"

"Edward York is a figure of mystery. The Missing Infante. The official story goes; A year or two after the death of Victor the second, the Infante Edward died of a childhood disease. The unofficial story is that Edward never died but was spirited away by a secret society loyal to his father to protect him from his Uncle, Victor the third," explained Rob.

"I remember hearing that story as a child. Everyone in the orphanage likes to think they're the child of Lord this or Lady that and that someday their true parents will come looking for them. As the years pass and no one comes, well you give up on those kind of stories," Edward said, with sadness in his voice.

A thought occurred to him. "Carmine said I had Edward's ring, Edward of York's ring. She thinks I'm this missing Infante."

"Are you?" asked Rob.

"I don't think so. How can I be?"

"You do have the ring, which you say your mother gave you," replied Rob.

"Well yes, but, I don't suppose it can be that ring, otherwise that would make..." he paused to think about it.

"Queen Elisabeth consort to Victor the third your mother," Rob interrupted. "She married Victor the second's brother after his death."

"I have to agree with Carmine, it's unbelievable that I would know nothing of this if I were the Infante," said Edward.

"Well that may as be, but it seems to me, if your to die for being him, either you'd better be him, or you'd better get the matter straightened," advised Rob.

"It's quite a lot to take in. Yesterday I was enjoying the life of a simple sailor. Today I'm a fugitive from the Empire. All I did was run away from the orphanage and go to sea."

"Plus we are lost in a desert with a broken airship and a dangerous prisoner. We don't know where we are, which way to go or whose territory we're in. If were still in British Colonial America then we've probably had it," said Rob.

"Looks like we're going to need Lady Augustus's help," remarked Edward. "I hope she's going to be alright."

As they talked dawn broke and the first rays of morning light threw long dark shadows from the rocks. The wind picked up and the temperature began to rise.

"I think it's light enough to search the airship for supplies," said Edward.

Loose items had been thrown about the cabin during the crash and most had accumulated in the lowest corner. The airship sat at an angle which made it awkward to move around inside. Up in the rounded hull the going was easier and they soon found a satchel containing food. Rob turned up a couple of bottles of wine to boot.

They decided it was wiser to move Lady Augustus into the shade of the airship as their landing had destroyed the only shade tree for miles around. Lady Augustus lay quiet as the dead while the boys took stock of their supplies. In addition to wine they had found,  the satchel contained a little bread and cheese, a half a salted salami and dried figs. About enough for one meal each if they included Lady Augustus. The boys sat looking across the desert towards the distant mountains and felt the heat of the day.

"Looks like we're in a right spot," Rob said, mopping at his brow with dusty shirt tails.

Edward nodded in agreement. Things certainly looked bleak, and for the moment, he had no ideas. This was completely unfamiliar terrain to Edward and Rob, they had no idea what to do to survive, though staying out of the heat seemed a good idea. Even in the shade they soon began to feel thirsty.

"We could drink the wine," suggested Rod.

"We will, but I don't think that's going to be enough, wait, I've got it, the airship boiler, that will have water."

"How do we get it out?" asked Rob.

"Don't worry about that, I think I know enough about engines to work out how to drain the boilers in an airship. We need to find some tools though. You look for tools, and I'll inspect the engines," said Edward.

The two set about their tasks in earnest. Despite the heat and the difficult angle of the airship it wasn't long before Edward was able to locate the draining valves.

"We need to drink a bottle of wine now," said Edward.

"I applaud your vigour," replied Rob, "but why?"

"We need the bottle as a container for the engine water, we don't have anything else."

"Good point. We'd better set too then," Rob said producing a corkscrew from the pile of things he'd liberated from the airship.

They popped the cork on a bottle and took it in turns to swig down the wine. "Not a bad vintage," remarked Rob with a devilish grin on his face. "Well you need to get used to saying such things now you're royalty," he teased.

"Well if I have to be royalty then I guess I'm making you my Prime-Muddler. You can call me 'Your Highness' or 'Your Loftyness' and I shall call you Sir Badger of Muddles or First Muddler Badger and you must bow so low your head is below your feet."

"I like your kind of thinking my liege and as your First Muddler may I add that all the populace should carry a potato at all times, in case of emergency."

"An excellent idea Sir Badger, now please pass the wine of excellent vintage and stop hogging it all for yourself."

The bottle, now more than half empty, was passed and Edward took another swig. "Do you think her Ladyship would like a drop of this excellent vintage?" he asked waving the bottle in her general direction. "I think I'll see if she does," he got up and swayed momentarily before crossing the sand to Lady Augustus's prone form. Pressing the lip of the bottle against her mouth he poured a generous amount into her mouth.

"Do you think she appreciates it," asked Edward. "She doesn't seem to have a view on it." Suddenly Lady Augustus started, coughing and choking she tried to sit upright. Edward bent quickly and eased her position.

"You are awake at last," said Edward.

"So it would seem," Lady Augustus replied frostily, "and you are drunk."

"That's quite possible," Edward agreed affably. "Would you like to be too?"

"You do realise that we're in the middle of a desert with no idea of where we are?"

"I bet you know which desert were in though eh?" asked Edward.

"And why am I tied up?" she asked.

"You're dangerous," replied Edward. "You tied us up, now it's our turn to tie you up. Now which desert are we in?"

"Ha, you think I'm going to tell you?" she replied angrily. "Perhaps if you untie me I might, just might, put in a good word for you when I'm rescued."

"Oh, and how do you think that's going to happen? How's anyone going to find us in this place?"

"Never you mind," retorted Lady Augustus, "find me they will and when that happens then well …" she let her words trail off.

"Not really helping your case your Ladyship," Rob called across at her.

"Just you wait, I'm important, there will be an Imperial Corvette coming over the horizon any moment and when it does the tables will be turned once again Edward York."

"There you go with the Edward York thing again. Who is this Edward York?"

"You know full well who you are."

"I'm Edward Blacksteel."

"And Edward York."

"Edward York is dead."

"That now seems rather unlikely don't you think?" retorted Lady Augustus. "The ring proves it, besides which you look like your father, Richard York, Victor the second of the British Empire."

"So your telling me I'm the Missing Infante?"

"Yes."

"And why do you want to capture me?"

"I would have thought that obvious. As the Infante you're next in line of the throne after your father, that would make Victor the third a caretaker monarch, and since the birth of his son Harold York, your step-brother, you now stand in the way. I guess it was all going fine for you until it was discovered you hadn't died as a child."

"How did I end up in an orphanage? Why did it happen?"

"How should I know? I was sent to kill or capture you."

"Quiet, quiet you two," said Rob urgently. They fell quiet. "Do you hear that?" asked Rob, "I think it's the sound of engines."

All three fell silent and the hot silence of the desert swept over them. The breeze dragged grains of sand across the ground, rattled the tumble-weed and whistled through the airship wreckage, a cricket chirped here and there and in the far distance, possibly, just possibly, the regular whumpf whumpf of an engine could occasionally be heard, or imagined.

Edward got up and shielded his eyes from the sun with a hand, he searched the skies. Eventually he spotted something, a small grey dot in the blue distance slowly growing bigger.

"We'd better get out of here," said Rob.

"You wont get far," said Lady Augustus. "They can probably see you already through their telescope."

"She's right," said Edward, "There's no way were going to escape the eyes aboard that, and if we did, what chance do we have in the desert?"

The appearance of the airship put the boys in a sober mood as they waited pensively for the craft to arrive. The distant thump of the engines grew steadily louder and louder until the shadow of the ship fell across the boys. As they looked up at the hull floating high above them it began to descend and rope ladders fell from port and starboard bows.

Moments later four sailor's clambered adroitly down the ladders and walked across the sand towards the damaged airship. Two more men followed the sailors at a more relaxed pace. Upon seeing the boys and Lady Augustus, seated in the shade of the crashed airship, one of the sailors cried," Hoy there you, stay where you are," and turning to the men following shouted, "There are survivors Sir."

At this the two men picked up pace and approached the airship.

"What have we here?" The taller of the two asked as he stood over the shipwrecked trio.

"Lady Carmine Augustus, Baronetess of Apethorpe. I do believe Captain," said the shorter one of the pair, a sandy haired man with a round pleasant face.  He wore a crumpled white linen suit and a white trilby hat which had not prevented his face from reddening in the hot Texan sun.

"and someone has already packaged her up nice and neat for us," the Captain remarked, indicating her bonds.

"Just so," the other continued, "I presume then, that this is..." he stood back a moment rubbing his chin and looking at the two dejected boys sat on the sand in their dishevelled seaman's uniforms. "Edward York," the round faced man announced pointing at Edward who was astonished at this apparent magic. How could this man he had never met possibly pick him out? Mind he had a fifty percent chance of doing so.

This is it, thought Edward. Now I'm done for, these men will finish the job Carmine was supposed to. However, throughout this exchange Lady Augustus had remained noticeably silent and when the airship sailors failed to fall upon Edward and Rob, Edward began to wonder if this was Lady Augustus's promised rescuers after all.

"I am Edward York, or at least Lady Augustus thinks I am," said Edward.

"I'm Gordon MacArthur, Lord Northumberland's' Agent," the man said then turning to Rob continued, "And you are Robert Badger I presume. You both must be hot and tired, please come aboard the A. S. Valiant with us." He noticed Edward cast a glance at Lady Augustus. "Don't worry about her, she is comming too," he smiled.

Feeling bemused and with little choice in the matter, as far he could see, Edward got up from the sand and followed the captain and MacArthur to a rope ladder which dangled from the airship, now so low, it floated barley a man's head above the desert floor.

The A.S. Valiant was considerably larger than Lady Augustus's airship, with a crew of seven and space for eight passengers. The gondola contained the engines and helm while accommodation in the form of tiny cabins, a modest galley and lounge were housed in the hull.

Edward made himself comfortable in the lounge, watching from the port window as the Valiant gained hight. He was surprised when an airshipman in a pristine white uniform asked him if he would care for a drink? Edward had not experienced being waited on before and relished the novelty. He asked for a beer and was dully brought the finest example of the brew he'd ever tasted.

"This is the life eh?" Rob said, nudging Edward and laughing. He agreed with is friend, but couldn't help feeling a certain sense of unease about their situation.
Chapter 10 – A new world
A head poked through the hatch, immediately followed by the rest of MacArthur. He took a moment to mop his brow with a large white handkerchief.

"My, my tis most unconscionably hot in these parts, don't you think your Highness?" MacArthur took a seat and suddenly thinking said, "I may call you your Highness?"

"As you like," replied Edward. 

This was a great improvement over sitting in the desert and lots better than sweating over a hot Babbage engine. Edward thought he might as well make the most of it, before they realised they had the wrong person sent him back to the Dauntless to face charges.

"I've been talking to the Captain and we will be coming up on the A.S. Countess of Wetherby within three hours," MacArthur informed them.

"The Countess of Wetherby?" asked Edward.

"Your Uncle's airship. You're no doubt keen to meet him your Highness."

"Yes, yes I am," Edward replied. He had no idea who this Uncle of his was and held a suspicion that their meeting would signal the end of the pleasantries and the start of his return to normal life. Edward imagined he would be clapped in irons, so he was going to make the most of things and as the expression goes 'lord it up', after all these people currently thought him to be 'a lord'.

"You know, Mr. MacArthur, Rob and I are terrible hungry after our night in the desert, I don't suppose you have any victuals aboard perchance?" Edward said, in what he hoped was a passing impersonation of the way lords and Highnesses spoke.

"Of course, of course," MacArthur said, mopping at his brow again. "How thoughtless of me your Highness. Naturally you and your companion are famished from your sojourn in the night desert. I'll have something sent up from the galley straight away. I presume cold cuts, bread and fruits will suffice for now? I'm afraid we don't carry much by way of provisions on the Valiant, she's more built for speed and manoeuvrability than for comfort I'm afraid."

"Cold cuts will suffice Mr. MacArthur," replied Edward, trying the new word 'suffice' with relish and hoping he'd used it correctly. He was beginning to enjoy himself, and had to take a moment to remind himself that this was all going to come to a sudden, and probably painful, end. Still it would be all the better suffered with a fully belly.

The food arrived and the boys tucked in with relish. Used to the Spartan fare served aboard the Dauntless, stews and ships biscuits washed down with rum .The dish of meats on the table before them served with fresh crusty breads and a bowl of fruit were a veritable feast to both their eyes and their stomachs.

After an hour or so the boys were satiated and after another bottle of beer each they were overcome with drowsiness and began to nod off. Despite the excitement and novelty of his new position and the daunting prospect of its sudden end, Edward was unable to keep his eyes open a moment longer. The long night had taken its toll and the good food had done its job, the cushioned seats and gentle rocking of the airship gently lulled him and he found himself nodding off into a deep restful sleep.

Edward woke with a sudden start. The light in the cabin had grown dim as evening approached. Rob slept peacefully on in the chair next to him. The sailor who had earlier brought the food was conversing quietly with MacArthur, who, upon seeing Edward was awake, addressed him.

"Ah, your Highness, I trust you are feeling refreshed?" he asked.

Edward did indeed feel refreshed and said so.

"You might like to know then, that we are coming up on the Countess of Wetherby and should dock with her shortly. You can observe her from the cockpit if you wish." MacArthur told him.

Edward could see no reason to object to the suggestion and felt excited at the prospect. Rob began to stir to the sound of voices so Edward shook him awake and invited him along. The boys followed MacArthur along a narrow ship corridor and down steep gantry steps to the Valiant's helm, located in the forward cabin.

The Captain stood firmly next the wooden helm, hands clasped behind his back. The helmsman, resplendent in his white uniformed, held the Valiant on a steady course. The Captain turned and nodded to Edward as the three entered what had suddenly become a rather crowded cabin. In front of the helmsman a wide window gave a panoramic view of the sky ahead. It was a clear evening, the light still quite bright and the moon, a large silver piece, already risen off the port side.

Directly ahead of the Valiant Edward saw a grey cigar shape, about the size of his thumb, which he took to be the Wetherby. The grey smudge quickly grew and took shape and they seemed to be racing towards it at high speed. Edward began to fear a collision which to seemed inevitable. The Wetherby grew in size and Edward was suddenly shocked by a change  of perspective. With nothing in the sky to compare the size of the Wetherby to, Edward had imagined it was a little larger than the Valiant, but now the helm port was filled by the Wetherby’s starboard hull, and Edward realised the ship was not small and close, but  immensely huge, and still a way off.

From the Valiant Edward could see a white symbol painted on the side of the Wetherby's starboard hull, it appeared to be a stylised flower of some kind, a pimpernel perhaps, or a rose. The front ends of the Wetherby’s main and starboard hulls could now be seen joined by a complex weave of iron stanchions and cables, she was an extremely rare type of airship, tri-hulled and capable of incredible lifting power and stability. 

The Valiant sailed on toward the Wetherby, as they drew along side and slipped along the port hull the flower symbol appeared so large, only a portion of petal could be seen apparently drifting astern. Of course Edward had seen large airships before, at Tewkesbury, but the Wetherby was larger, much larger than even those, a veritable levantine of the sky which dwarfed the Valiant to such an extent that it came as no surprise when the entire airship entered a dock in the Wetherby's port hull, itself so large, another mooring tower was already occupied by a second ship of a similar size and class to the Valiant.

The Valiant glided gently to the free mooring tower and after a few moments clunked its mooring ball into the towers' gimbals. The port hull doors slid shut. There was a moment of darkness before the lighting came on along the entire length of the hanger. Edward was struck by the odd nature of the light in the hanger, but didn't have time to consider it further as MacArthur suggested they disembark swiftly, the Duke would be anxious to finally meet his nephew Edward.

While not keen for the adventure to come to an end, Edward could find no reason to delay things, so with a certain weight to his steps he followed MacArthur to a gangplank which led down to the hanger floor.  Here he found Lady Carmine calmly waiting, flanked on either side by two of the Valiant's sailors. She gave Edward a curt, bitter, smile and nodded politely.

"It looks like you've won your highness," she said.

Despite her circumstances, or perhaps because of them, Edward thought the deadly assassin looked particularly beautiful, long black tresses of hair flowing down her back, her slim lithe figure in a black, close fitting, outfit.

"It doesn't feel like a victory," Edward confessed. "I wish we could have met under better circumstances."

Lady Carmine snorted with derision, "I'm sure you do your highness."

"We really aught to be moving on," MacArthur said to Edward. "The Duke is waiting upon us."

"The Duke of Northumberland no doubt," Lady Carmine said, to which MacArthur gave her a look, but said nothing. 

"Who else would own a ship like this one?" she accused, but MacArthur strode off across the hanger and after one final look back at her, a tiny figure in black standing between two tall sailors, Edward followed MacArthur his footsteps ringing out on the hangar floor.

They came to a metal hull door which opened onto a canvas covered gantry. A chill wind rattled the stiff canvas which was secured to the gantry by rope. From time to time Edward could see the dark earth far below through gaps in the canvas. They came to a second door and entered the A.S. Wetherby's main deck.

Edward found himself standing in what looked like a guardroom or storage area. Wooden crates were stacked neatly against a wall and a corner was filled with barrels. A couple of the Wetherby's sailors sat at a table playing cards, a bottle of rum and a pile of small coins between them. They glanced up from their game as the little group entered before returning to their cards.

"If you would follow me please gentlemen," MacArthur asked the boys, leading them across the room and into another corridor, this one with polished wood boarding.  A few steps further and they entered a carpeted room. To Edward it was like stepping into another world. One moment he'd been walking down a narrow airship corridor, the vast grey side of the hull forming one wall, the next he was in the most sumptuous and elegant room he'd ever seen. A thick red carpet covered the floor, at it's centre an image familiar enough to send a shiver up Edward's spine, an Imperial crest. The walls of the room were panelled in oak. An ornate chandelier hung from the centre of the ceiling casting a warm light. Against one wall stood a long table with chairs arranged along it. Behind the table a length of panelling with brass gauges and meters mounted on it.

MacArthur led the boys to the end of the room where high backed red leather chairs and a couch stood. The door at the end of the room opened and a man in a white collarless shirt, wearing a black tail coat and dark trousers entered, carrying before him a silver tray with several goblets and two tall jugs. 

"Gentlemen, Mr. MacArthur," the man addressed them as he placed the tray on a low table next to the couch. "His Lordship thought you might welcome some light refreshment after your voyage. Perhaps you would care to take a little hot coffee or chocolate?"

"I think I'll try the chocolate," Edward said. He'd never had chocolate as a drink before. The man poured warm brown frothy liquid into one of the goblets and offered it to Edward who took it gratefully and sipped.

The door opened again and a large imposing figure of a man in his early forties with dark flowing hair and a neat black beard, entered the room. He wore black riding boots, black jodhpurs and a large white shirt over which he wore a dark green embroidered jacket in silk. The room filled with his presence as he strode purposefully towards the group.

"Thank you Chesterton, that will be all," he dismissed the butler with a nod, then standing back appraised the boys while MacArthur stood silently by. After a while he smiled and said to Edward, "you must be Edward, and this is your companion Robert."

"Indeed your Lordship," MacArthur confirmed.

His Grace, Guy Lord Buckingham, Duke of Northumberland, brother of Consort Queen Elisabeth herself smiled broadly and stepping forward embraced Edward. "Welcome back," he said, "welcome home. My you have your father's look about you indeed."

Edward was astonished. He felt as if he'd passed some kind of test, without knowing what the test was, yet it seemed the Duke recognised him.

"MacArthur," the Duke addressed him, "would you show Mr. Badger his rooms?"

"Your Grace," MacArthur nodded his assent. "Mr. Badger," he led Rob off through a door at the end of the room.

"If we could have a few words in my study," the Duke said as he led Edward down a carpeted corridor to another room. The Duke's study was lined with bookshelves. A small elegant walnut bureaux with inlaid pearl stood against one wall. Edward could see his ring and letter sitting on the leather covered surface of the table. The Duke invited him to sit on a leather covered chair taking the seat opposite.

"Cigarette?" the Duke offered, holding out a silver cigarette case. Edward declined.

"But you don't mind if I do?" the Duke took one of his own cigarette's and lit it. The rich pungent smell of Turkish tobacco filled the air as he drew casually on the smoke and stared thoughtfully at the books behind Edward. Eventually he spoke.

"I suppose all this has come as something of a shock to you. Am I correct in thinking, that don't know the significance of your ring?" the Duke cast a glance in the direction of the bureaux.

"No Sir, I do not," replied Edward. "Until Lady Augustus took me from Fort Arthur I had no idea."

"And all this time you've believed yourself to be an orphan?" asked the Duke.

"Yes, and I'm not sure I'm not an orphan now," he confessed, this is it, thought Edward, the ride is over. But instead of confirming his fears, the Duke continued on a new tack.

"Do you recall any visitors to you at the Orphanage?" he asked.

Edward thought a moment. Visitors to the Orphanage were rare and most of them were business callers for Sniderby. There were the Directors of course and besides their annual inspection there was one director, Lord Apethorpe, who particularly stood out for Edward, not withstanding that he had seemed to rather take to Edward, but he had also been the bearer of the ring.

Edward recounted, "there was a director, a Lord Apethorpe I think," said Edward thoughtfully. "He came to see us all, three or four times a year, but once, when I was about ten years old he took me alone into Sniderby's office, that was when he gave me the ring and the letter and told me they had been left by my Mother when I was abandoned."

"Did he say anything else?" asked the Duke.

"He said I should keep the ring a secret," replied Edward.

"I see," the Duke blew a pale blue ring of smoke into the air. "Can you remember anything more?"

Edward frowned with the effort of drawing the distant childhood memories to mind. There had been something else, what had it been? He concentrated for all he was worth, then, suddenly it came flooding back to him and once again he was the ten year old Edward standing in Sniderby's study which smelt of Sniderby's sweat, and the kindly dark haired man was talking to Edward.

Lord Apethorpe took the ring from his pocket and held it out to the boy.

"Take it," he said, "this ring belongs to you and it's time you had it, but be careful, keep it well hidden."

Edward reached out and took the heavy ring with its distinctive pattern and held it.

"Your mother left it for you along with this note," Apethorpe gave Edward the strange letter. "I would keep them in this pouch if I was you," and Apethorpe handed Edward the leather pouch which he'd faithfully kept the ring in ever since.

"Now I want you to do something for me," Apethorpe asked Edward. "I want you to memorise a little poem for me, can you do that?" 

Ten year old Edward was sure he could.

"The following year he asked me to repeat the poem to him," Edward told the Duke.

"And did you?"

"Yes. He never asked again," I'd almost completely forgotten, Edward confessed.

"And you can remember the poem now?" the Duke asked leaning forward in his chair. A certain eagerness in his demeanour.

"I think so," said Edward.

The Duke looked at him with anticipation. Edward felt a little embarrassed, unused to public performance as he was. He took a moment to compose himself.

"It doesn't have a title, at least I don't think it does," said Edward and then he recited,

"The knight he saw her standing there
wind's fingers playing in her hair
and all at once he was in love
and knew he had her hand to have

to world's end for her, he would go
mountain, forest, desert, snow
paths long and winding, near and far
to make her his true western star

and now his love for her she saw
hearts compass pointing to all four
so giving him her one true word
they marry 'neath the eastern sword"

"It's not much of a poem," Edward admitted, but the Duke beamed at him. 

"Not much as poems go, yes, but certain proof that you are the Infante, it's exquisite my boy, as you are about to learn," the Duke leapt up energetically and crossed the room to the desk. Picking up the ring and the letter he returned to his chair and gave Edward his ring back.

"You should wear it now my boy, it is the Infante's ring. Wear it on your right hand," the Duke instructed. "I will read your mother's letter, but first, for her sake, let me tell you something about the things that happened which led you mother to abandon you."

Edward placed the ring on his middle finger and making a fist looked down at it glinting in the light.

"My apologies, I was unable to say this earlier, but I had to be sure. Of course you look remarkable like your father, but then it would not be so difficult to find some who did, however, the poem, only you and dear Philip knew the poem. He wrote it just for you and until recently you were the only other person in the world to have heard it. It is most saddening that I have had to come to know it also, under unpleasant circumstances which I will endevour to explain."

Edward waited patiently for the Duke to continue.

"It's a long story, and I'm sure you'll have many questions afterwards, but let me start at the beginning. You were born the first son of Richard and Elizabeth York. Richard took his middle name, Victor, at his coronation and became Victor the second Emperor of the British Empire and her sovereign states. For almost five years Victor the Second reigned happily and wisely, but then, within months of your birth, a terrible tragedy befell both the nation and your family. Your father was struck down by a fatal disease to which he swiftly succumbed. We were all distraught, your mother particularly so, and the nation took to morning a deep felt loss. It wasn't until latter we became suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Victor's death."

"Your uncle Henry stood by your mother throughout her grief giving her great comfort and succour. In due course, your father's brother, Henry, was appointed Prince Regent in ex-paretis, that is to say, appointed king until the day you were old enough to take your rightful place on the throne, at the age of twenty one. In her grief your mother had married your uncle and in due course they had a child together, Harold. Soon after Harold's birth, Henry began  makeing moves in Parliament to secure a stronger position for himself in Government, seeking to make himself true Emperor."

"There were those who opposed your uncle's ambition, who supported the memory of your father, and your rightful inheritance, British Emperor. At first they acted each according to their own feelings on the matter, but those who spoke out against your uncle soon suffered inexplicable accidents and misfortune, a run away horse took poor Lord Chatham, Lord and Lady Minster-St-John were both killed in the same hunting accident, and there were others. Over time those who support your cause were forced to meet in secret. No longer voicing there opposition in the Upper House or the newspapers. Over time they became a secret society, a league who's task was to see you installed as Emperor. It was known as the League of the White Rose."

"At the time there were several 'incidents' surrounding your safety, I will not detail them now, but those opposed to your uncle's ambitions voiced their concerns to your mother about your safety. It took no little persuasion, but eventually they were able to convince her to send you to the countryside, to the Lake District, where it was felt you could be better protected from your uncle. Unfortunately this was not to be the case and one terrible night a conflagration took the manor house where you and and your nurse were staying. Luckily, you were not in your bed as usual, but still out with your nurse, and become lost in nearby woods where you had been playing. It was clear that as long as your uncle thought you to be alive you would be at risk, so the League used the accident to lead Henry to think you had been killed in the fire. In reality you were taken by a trusted friend, a cousin of your mother's, Philip Augustus Baronet of Appethorpe. We entrusted your safety entirely to him."

"The night of the fire I made haste in an airship from my country seat in Northumberland to the Lake District and took you and your nurse aboard the Valiant. Later I put you in Philips arms myself and until today, never saw you nor knew where you were. Recent events however have brought this matter to a head once more, with the unfortunate death of Lord Apethorpe."

"I now know what Philip did. While his sympathies with the league were not widely known he felt it wise to hide you away rather than have you in his own home, this ploy, as it so happens, turns out to have been a wise idea, and he placed you in Blacksteel Orphanage. As a director of Blacksteel as well as several other Orphanages, he was able to both keep an eye on you and at the same time, felt he was far enough removed to prevent suspicion."

"As you know this plan successfully hid you from Henry's eyes for over ten years. Over the years the league lost several supporters to Henry's machinations, any one of whom might have been your host, were it not for Philip. A few months ago however Philip himself was killed, suddenly and unexpectedly, we fear Henry had a hand in his death also."

"We were frantic, Philip was our only contact with you and with his death your mother and I knew not what had become of you, if you were dead or alive. However, a week after Philip's funeral I received a letter from a small firm of solicitors in London Smith, Cradock and Lentz. It was hand delivered, as instructed, and as instructed, delivered in the eventuality of Philips death."

"At first the letter seemed innocuous, it was some time before we realised it held a cryptic message, one intended for myself or your mother. Following the clues in the letter I was able to track you to Blacksteel, but when I arrived you had already gone, and worse, an Imperial Agent was hot on your heals, the Lady Augustus, Philip's own daughter."

"Since then we have been following your trail, and hers. Knowing there was a good chance she could get to you first we planned to intercept her should she find you. Once we knew she'd taken you from Fort Arthur we sabotaged her airship, bringing it down in the Texan desert, and you know the rest of the story."

He fingered the letter he held in his hand. "This letter from your mother, is written in her hand, in the Imperial language spoken only by those close to the Emperor. As brother to the queen I have been schooled in the language, and in due course, so will you, but for now, permit me to read it to you."

"My Dearest Darling Edward, It is with the greatest of sadnesses and the heaviest of hearts that I find myself in such a miserable state as to be writing these words to you, my dearest son. Fortune has abandon us, and I have made a terrible mistake, but one I can not now change, thought I would give my life even to do so, if I thought it to make the difference, but I am a feared it will not and now I must undertake the hardest task of my life, to entrust you to the care of someone else. How I wish it were not be so. Do not think I have abandoned you, for you are first and foremost in my thoughts and in my heart, each and every moment of each and every day. I beg only that you can find it in your heart to forgive me and to know that I would but have had it any other way than this, if there were but a single other choice. As it is, I must loose you one way or another, and this way at least I hope in my heart of hearts that we shall one day be together again. Your mother Elisabeth York, Queen of England."

The Duke of Northumberland sat back in his chair. "It's good to see you safe again my boy," he smiled at Edward. "I'm sure you have many questions, but the hour grows late and you must be weary after your adventures. Tomorrow we head for a safe haven in Holland and there will be plenty of time on our journey through the clouds to answer any questions you have."

Guy Northumberland pressed a small button inlaid into the the arm of the chair and a moment later Chesterton appeared behind Edward, through a concealed door.

"Would you show His Highness to his suite please Chesterton," asked the Duke.

"Why certainly Sir. If you would follow me my lord," the latter request addressed to Edward.

He did feel tired, and Sir Guy's story left him with much to think about. Chesterton led Edward along a corridor to a door with a familiar crest on it. "The Duke's room are opposite yours," Chesterton informed Edward before showing him the sumptuous apartments he was to occupy whilst aboard the Wetherby.

Edward was awestruck by the richness and refinement of his new accommodation. "This is fit for a king," he said to Chesterton.

"Indeed Sir," the servant replied.
Chapter 11 – Enter the Infante
Edward had trouble sleeping. The duke's story ran round and round his head, the bed was too soft, the food he'd eaten too refined, the room too large. Eventually he found peace sleeping in the bottom of a spacious wardrobe, which was where Chesterton found him the following morning when he came to lay out Edward's clothes.

With exemplary professionalism Chesterton kept any note of surprise from his voice when he opened the wardrobe and found the boy curled up there, asleep on the floor.

"Good morning Sir, I trust you slept well?" he enquired as if it were an everyday occurrence to find his charges sleeping in cupboards.

"Er, um, yes thank you Sir," replied Edward, for a moment forgetting he was on the Wetherby and assuming he was on the SS Dauntless.

"Perhaps I may be permitted to make some suggestions for your attire today Sir?" Chesterton continued as the boy, rubbing his eyes and stretching, climbed from the cupboard.

"I believe some of these things will fit you well enough Sir. I'll have the ships tailor take your measurements and make the necessary adjustments to your wardrobe." said Chesterton as he began laying garments across the back of a chair.

"These britches and this shirt should do the job till then Sir. You'll need boots as well, what is your size Sir?" asked Chesterton.

Edward was beginning to become a little irritated with the constant Siring, he was unused to it and it sat uncomfortably with him. He was embarrassed to confess he did not know what shoe size he was, no one had ever asked him before.

"Please call me Edward," he told Chesterton, who managed to prevent a look of horror at the suggestion, from crossing his face.

"I, er..." for once Chesterton looked like he might loose his composure. "If you don't mind Sir, I'd rather not," he said after some considerable inner-debate on how to handle the situation. "It's not my place to be so familiar."

"Well it doesn't sit well with me Chesterton, how about calling me Mr. Black?"

Chesterton didn't look happy at this idea either, his thin moustaches quivered with indignation but he took a deep breath and replied, "Very well Mr. Black, if you insist. Now about your shoe size?"

"Thank you Chesterton. As to my shoe size, I think we'll let the tailor be the judge of that," Edward replied. "until then I shall be quite comfortable bare foot I think."

This was almost more than poor Chesterton could take. "I'll have the tailor come right up Si... Mr. Black."

Chesterton picked up the shirt and approached Edward with it, ready to help him dress. Edward almost tripped over the chair as he leapt out of Chesterton's way crying, "What on earth are you doing man?"

"I'm to help you dress, the Duke is waiting for you to join him at breakfast," Chesterton explained.

"And that gives you licence to attack at me with a shirt?" asked Edward.

"I was merely attempting to assist you in your morning toilet Mr. Black," replied Chesterton.

"I see, well I'm quite capable of dressing myself, thank you Sir," said Edward, trying to relieve Chesterton of the offending garment, who in turn attempted to assert his right to do his job. A delicate pantomime followed in which the two of them managed to work out a method that while not fully satisfying either, was an equitable compromise.

Chesterton insisted on holding out the clothes and Edward on being allowed to put them on himself. Then Chesterton fussed around Edward, trying to tuck his shirt in and straighten his trouser legs while Edward hopped about trying to avoid the unwanted attention. Eventually everything was, as far as it was going to be possible, to Chesterton's satisfaction and he led Edward across the corridor and presented him, shoeless at the Duke's breakfast table.

The Duke took breakfast in a room with a large porthole window which gave on to a panoramic view of the sea below, and where the morning sun flooded in. He sat at a table and waived Edward to take a seat with a piece of toast he was holding in his hand.

"Good morning Edward," he smiled at the boy. "I trust you slept well?"

"After a fashion," replied Edward eyeing the food with no little hunger.

The Duke noticed, "Dig in, dig in, you needn't wait for an invitation, you are the Infante, the world is yours for the taking," the Duke told him with a smile.

"It's... I... I'm not yet used to the idea," confessed Edward.

"No, I suppose not," said the Duke thoughtfully. "I hadn't really considered, but of course your right, I suppose all you have ever really known is the Orphanage."

"I have travelled some, and been in the Royal Navy," Edward insisted.

"Of course, of course, I meant your unused to this kind of life," explained the Duke.

"That's certain," replied Edward securing himself some of the toast before the Duke finished it all.

"We will soon change that," replied the Duke. "There's a lot for you to learn before you can take your rightful place. As I mentioned last night we're headed for Holland, to the Kasteel De Haar near Utrecht, the Grand Duke Leopold Willem Van Der Hoakfen is sympathetic to our cause and De Haar is as safe a place for you right now as any. While Holland is not a British ally, it is not Britain's enemy either and your uncle will have a hard time getting at you in Holland."

"talking of which," continued the Duke, "there is someone I would like you to meet later."

"The tailor?" Edward asked.

The Duke laughed. "Well that's not a bad idea, but not who I had in mind. No, I was thinking it important that you receive comprehensive instruction, in both the military and the finer arts and the man for the job is right here, aboard the Wetherby, my Master-at-arms Captain Proctor-Legate. I've taken the liberty of asking him to join us shortly."

Edward looked out of the window at the passing clouds which surrounded the Wetherby and the emerald blue Atlantic sea below. He could see a small dot on the water below which he thought might be a ship, but it was so small and indistinct he was unsure.

There was a knock at the door followed a moment later by the entrance of a huge man with a main of flowing blond hair and large drooping moustaches which hung from under his nose. His large black boots thundered with each step as he crossed the room.

"Ah Simon," the Duke greeted Captain Proctor-Legate. "Good of you to join us. We were just talking about you."

"My Lord," Captain Legate bowed formally to the Duke. "My Liege," he bowed to Edward.

"Captain Legate will be in-charge of your training Edward. You are almost sixteen and we have five years before you accede to the throne, we must use this time wisely. There is much that you will need to know if you are to rule with a firm and fair hand, not least the arts of war, and I'm afraid to say, of assassination. Knowing the ways of your enemies will help protect against them."

"Perhaps you will permit Captain Legate to show you around the ship as a way of getting to know each other," suggested the Duke.

This seemed like a good idea to Edward and he readily agreed. Having had breakfast in his own quarters the Captain was eager to make a start. It was clear he was a man of action.

"Where's Rob?" Edward asked the Duke, thinking of his friend.

"Ah yes, Mr. Badger," the Duke said thoughtfully. "I'm sure we can find a suitable position for him amongst us. "Perhaps you would assess Mr. Badger's abilities Captain Legate," the duke suggested.

Captain Legate nodded his assent to the Duke and strode purposefully from the room forcing Edward to shoot after him. He followed the captain along the corridor, down a steep metal staircase to the helm.

"Now young Edward, we're stood in the control gondola of the A.S. Wetherby, the pride of the Duke of Northumberland's fleet. The Wetherby is one off only three tri-hulled airships in the world. Built at the Von Zeppelin Skydock's at the Guntergaz Fulghaven she is the largest air-born ship in the world. Constructed from over three thousand tons of steel, and measuring a thousand feet from end to end. The two outrigger hulls house eight Carsholton super-compressed steam turbines capable of maintaining a top speed of fifty five knots an hour," Captain Legate informed Edward in his clipped manner. "I'm sure Flight Captain Echart will be happy to tell you anything more you may want to know about the Wetherby's capabilities.

Captain Legate turned swiftly and was about to stride off again when he noticed Edward's bare feet. "We must do something about that," he said, then led Edward back up the stairs into the main hull.

"These main gangways run the length of the hull. At the bow are the Royal apartments, currently occupied by yourself and the Duke, immediately behind them are the navigation and ships' auxiliary, further to the rear and on the floor above, we have various cabins, guest rooms, lounges, a library, offices and storage," explained the captain as he led Edward up narrow ships steps.

They marched on along the upper corridor until they reached a door which Captain Legate opened. "This is the training room," he announced.

They entered a large cabin with exercise bars lining one wall, and against another stood several weapons racks; a sword rack, a rifle rack and a pistol cabinet.

"Here I will teach you to use a sword and gun," said Captain Legate.

"I'm already trained," claimed Edward proudly.

The Captain Looked at him quizzically then said, "Ah you think what the Navy taught you was sword fighting eh?" as he spoke he strode across to the sword rack, picked two and tossed one to Edward.

"En-guard," cried the Captain raising his weapon.

Edward immediately sprang to the pose, as he'd been instructed on the Dauntless, though the sword he held was lighter and slimmer than the one he was used too. Legate stepped forward and lazily reached for Edward with the tip of his sword. Edward saw the strike coming and easily moved to parry, but to his surprise at the last moment Legate flicked his blade and Edwards' weapon flew from his hand and slid across the polished wooden floor.

The captain laughed at the expression on Edward's face. "You have quite a bit to learn. I think we'll be spending some time practising here," legate predicted.

"Now lets get you measured for some proper boots and then I'll introduce you to your tutor," said the captain. He picked up a brass nosed rubber tube which hung near the door, pulled the rubber stopper from its neck and blew into it.

"Legate here," he shouted into the tube. "Have the tailor meet us in the library," he ordered. "We're most likely to find your tutor there," he explained.

However the tutor was not in the library. Edward stood in the middle of the book lined room as the tailor, a short trim man with a measuring tape draped around his neck and neat wire framed glasses, measured him up. Once this was done Legate led the way, dashing down  corridors at a pace until they came to a cabin not far from the Wetherby's navigation room. Legate opened the door without knocking and stepped inside.

As Edward entered the dimly lit room he heard a whir and a click. Something shot across the floor heading straight for him. He leapt to the side and a metal object the size of a small dog clattered past and crashed into the wall. The whirring continued accompanied by a low whine as the thing thrashed about first climbing at the wall then falling on its side to reveal many small brass legs wriggling in a mechanical fashion.

Edwards eyes were becoming accustomed to the low light and he could see scattered about the room, small brass parts, cogs and springs, balls and rods and half assembled mechanisms, some of which lumbered or jumped or sat panting and ticking and whirring, as well as loose components which seemed to have escaped or were perhaps merely left lying around. In the middle of the room a tall thin flame rose from a pipe assembly which was mounted on a large oak bench. Like the floor, the bench was covered in components and half assembled clockworks and something which, at first, Edward took to be a pile of old rags. When the pile of rags suddenly moved he realised it was in fact the garb of a badly dressed man.

"Isambard," Legate bellowed, "is that you?" he stepped toward the bench and something crunched under foot.

"Oh do be careful," the figure behind the bench cried out, "What are you destroying now Simon? Do watch where your stepping."

"I can't see a damn thing in here Isambard and your infernal contraptions, or at least bits of them, are everywhere," Legate complained, though not with out some humour in his voice.

"Perhaps you should come over here," the captain suggested, "I've someone you ought to meet."

"Really? Who might that be then?" the figure asked his voice strong, strangely accented, and of a tenor which indicated great age. Isambard came around from behind the bench and with a peculiar shuffling he approached Edward and the Captain. Edward realised the old man was sweeping the components and assemblies out of the way with his feet as he walked. A moment latter Edward was looking into bright dark eyes which peered at him from a wizened old face most of which was hidden behind a bushy and unkempt silver beard.

"Who do we have here then Simon? Is this the new boy you've been promising me? I hope he's not as useless as the last one, didn't seem to know which way a clock went, kept loosing the little screws, no good you know, no good at all," the old man complained.

"No Isambard, this is not a new assistant for you. This is Edward," Legate told him.

"Edward is not my assistant? What use have I for such a boy?"

Legate sighed heavily. "The Duke mentioned him no? Surely you remember? The Infante?"

"He looks to old to be an infant," Isambard snapped back.

"Not an infant you old fool, the Infante."

Isambard poked Edward in the arm with a long bony finger. "As usual Simon you've completely lost me, what is the purpose of the boy?" asked the old man testily.

"He's to be your student, or to be clear, you are his new tutor," Legate told him.

Isambard waived dismissively at Legate and Edward and and turned back to his bench. "I have no need of a student," he said.

"Perhaps not, but his Grace feels the boy would benefit from your tutoring, though I don't see it myself," Legate replied.

"Well if his grace thinks so..." said the old man doubtfully, "Well I suppose I should take a look at him."

"I'll leave him with you then," Legate said, dodging out of the cabin before the old man changed his mind.

Professor Isambard Yan Van Klees gave Edward a long hard look, then asked, "What can you do boy?"

"I er, well, lots of things I suppose," Edward replied. He wasn't entirely sure the old man wasn't mad.

"Um, I see, well what do you make of this?" Isambard picked a small metal object from the floor and thrust it at Edward.

"I would say it's a cog of some sort," replied Edward looking at the cog.

The old man grunted, "Any idea what it might be for?" he asked.

"It could be for anything," Edward replied.

"It might be for a fish, or a cart or eating then?" the old man pounced.

"Well probably not those things," Edward said uncertainly, "but it could be part of any of the things in here, like that metal dog thing, or a clock or an analytical engine."

"Ah!" cried Isambard, "so you're not as stupid as you look, perhaps there is some promise in you after all. What do you know about analytical engines?"

Edward told him about his experience with the engine aboard the Dauntless, and his experiences with the steam engine at Blacksteel.

"I see, I see, well your understanding is primitive but you have potential, um, yes, yes, let me see..." he scratched his whiskery chin, deep in thought for a moment.

"The Infante eh?" he said after a moment, "Then there's no harm in showing you I suppose," and with that he leapt from the room.

Despite his age Isambard was sprightly and quick. Edward could now see he was dressed in a  dark brown tweed suit, crumpled and frayed at the elbows, but his shirt was clean. A velvet bow tie which had seen better days hung at his neck and seemed to suit him.

"This way," commanded Isambard. "What is your name boy?" he demanded.

"Edward Sir, Edward Black, or perhaps York," he told the strange old man.

"It seem a little peculiar not to know your own name," Isambard remarked. 

Edward agreed that it was. "It all seems to have got a bit complicated, my name that is," he explained.

"Well Edward will do well enough for now," Isambard told him, "though do please keep me informed of any further nomenclatureial developments, most intriguing, yes most intriguing indeed."

Van Klees led Edward along the corridor to a cabin which contained a machine Edward sort of recognised. It looked something like the Babbage engine aboard the Dauntless but differed in two important respects. The first being it was considerably larger, and the second being the size of its components, which were much much smaller, the tiniest cogs Edward had ever seen. A gentle ticking and clicking came from the machine which stood about two feet taller than Edward.

"This my boy, is the Countess of Wetherby, or at least, her mind as it were," said Isambard as he fiddled with some switches and changed some settings on a long walnut control panel which ran the length of the machine.

"I'm sure you recognise her as being a kind of Babbage engine. Of course the Countess is a lot more than just an engine, she is unique, singular in the world for both her size and delicacy. A wonder of the modern world if you will. She requires her own steam engine to drive her and she is capable of far greater calculations than the mear adding machines the Navy uses." As he spoke Isambard turned a crank and a brass iris began to slide open at the front of the machine.

A gentle whirring followed and the iris expanded to reveal a metallic face formed in the image of a beautiful woman. Her jewelled eyes clicked open, blinked with a gentle ticking and then she spoke.
Chapter 12 – The Countess of Wetherby
"Hello Isambard, you are well I trust," her voice, while sweet and melodic on one level, was mechanical and stilted on another, as if her words were played on fairy pipes. She spoke each word clearly enough, with a distinct pause between each, during which Edward heard a soft clicking. The jewel eyes looked around the cabin and finally settled on Edward.

"You have company today Isambard," said the mechanical Countess.

"Yes, yes indeed," cried Isambard excitedly while hopping around the Countess's control panel, adjusting the wheels and levers set there in. "She has detected your presence," he told Edward. "Isn't she magnificent?"

She certainly was thought Edward, though he'd never seen nor imagined such a thing before, and found it a little unsettling, was she alive or just a clever mechanism?

Isambard stood at a the Countesses' keyboard tapping little brass keys while babbling joyfully to himself. "Now if I just recalibrate the Hizen regulators and loop the Barstow functions through the secondary processing engine..." his fingers danced across keys and tiny levers as he made his adjustments.

The Countess spoke, "Datum accepted. Registering and processing. Edward York Imperial Infante, male, blond, blue eyed, six foot, weighing one hundred and forty pound. Current location, the Airship Countess of Wetherby. A pleasure to make your acquaintance Edward."

Edward jumped, the beautiful mechanical face had addressed him. "Er, a pleasure to meet you too Countess," replied Edward, rather self consciously, unsure how he should talk to a machine.

"How does she work? How can she speak?" he asked Isambard.

"Oh, well, she really is very sophisticated. She has a small pipe organ fitted at the back, each battery of pipes plays a phonetic sound giving her the illusion of speech. She really is a very clever series of mechanisms and intricate instructions. My daughter, Ada, did most of the instructing for the Countess including the vocalisation routines," Isambard replied with some pride.

Edward found it a little hard to believe that this excitable, wizened old man had a daughter, but at the moment he was willing to believe anything was possible.

The Countess began to whir again and after a moment sang out. "Edward Infante heed my warning, things are not as they seem."

"Oh dear, oh dear," Isambard mumbled, "I really have no idea where that came from. Sometimes I wonder that she might have a mind of her own," the old man laughed nervously.

"Well we should be getting along I'm sure," said Isambard hurriedly.

"Good bye Countess," Edward said to the machine, feeling it best to be polite. The Countess whirred again and a small printed card popped out of a slot just below the metal face and fell into a small brass bowl which waited below ready to receive such things. Edward picked the card up and looked at it. It read, "Merryman's House of Wonders, Admits one Adult. No refund."

"How peculiar," said Isambard, reading the card over Edward's shoulder. "She's never done anything like that before."

"What does it mean?" asked Edward.

"I'm sure I don't know young Edward, perhaps you should keep it just in case," he suggested.

"In case of what?" asked Edward.

"In case you are ever near Merryman's House of Wonders," the old man replied sharply. "Now we really aught to be moving along."

Edward was beginning to get a feel for the layout of the Wetherby and realised the potty Professor Isambard Van Klees was taking him forward. They climbed a steep set of stairs leading to a chamber at the front most point of the airship. The room was entirely glassed across the front, allowing a panoramic view of the sea which lay before them. Sunlight glinted off the waves and rode upon a sea of green and blue. The Duke was waiting for them in the forward observation gallery staring out across the vast ocean, hands clasped behind his back, he turned to greet them as they entered.

"Ah Isambard, I see Edward has managed to prise you from your laboratory for the first time this voyage," said the Duke by way of greeting the old man.

"Indeed your Lordship," said Isambard bowing to the Duke. "And I feel I have been distracted from my work for long enough today, so if you'll excuse me," he bowed again and scurried from the room before the Duke had a chance to reply, or Edward to thank him.

"So you've met Isambard and Captain Legate then my boy. Don't let first impressions fool you, they are both brilliant men in their own ways and in their fields of expertise," said the Duke. 

"We still have some time before we arrive in Holland, probably late tomorrow, so please feel free to explore the Wetherby as you like till then. I would also be honoured if you would join me for dinner this evening, here in the forward gallery," with that the Duke turned and strode out of the room.

Edward stood and watched the endless sea for a while, then walked casually round the room. He tried sitting on the elegantly upholstered chairs, he selected a leather bound book from the small ornate bookcase and flicked idly through the pages feeling the expensive paper between his fingers. He put the book down without reading any of it and followed the Duke from the observation gallery and went exploring the Wetherby in earnest, while wondering where Rob had got to.

He walked the corridors of the main hull for a while then crossed the port gantry to the out-rigged hull, which like the one he'd arrived at, contained a large warehouse space and a smaller airship. Crates of goods were stacked up and even a steam car sat on the deck. Several crewmen were busy with the goods and while they looked up and saw him, they took no further notice and continued with their duties. Back in the main hull Edward was continuing his explorations when Chesterton came briskly round a corner.

"Mr. um, Black, the Duke has informed me you'll be taking dinner with him tonight, and the tailor has completed the necessary adjustments and what-have-you to your garments. I think it would be a most opportune moment for you to try your new clothes on Sir, if you would follow me," Edward did as he was asked and followed the stiff butler back to his apartment.

As promised there were fresh clothes laid out and a pair of brown knee length boots, not unlike the Duke's own. Chesterton presented Edward with a silk shirt, cotton stockings, fresh britches and an embroidered frock coat in a dark green material with a green silk lining.

"But first Mr. black, may I suggest a bath. I've taken the liberty of drawing one for you in your bathroom," Chesterton informed him.

"I have a bathroom?" Edward asked in surprise. He was beginning to feel he'd have better spent his time exploring his own apartment, what else did it have? An armoury? It's own train? Chesterton slid open a connecting panel to reveal a sizeable room of which a large enamel bath was the centre piece, large enough for two or perhaps even three people. He stripped off and slid into the warm relaxing water, perfumed with something, he didn't know what but it smelt very pleasant and refined. As he bathed, Chesterton came in and suggested a hair cut.

"There's no end to your talents eh Chesterton?" Edward joked.

"No Sir, I'm sure your right," Chesterton agreed, "Now if you'll just hold your head still I'll soon have you looking like a lord."

Feeling refreshed and cleaner than he'd ever felt before, Edward followed Chesterton back to the main room where he dressed in his new clothes. Chesterton wheeled a large mirror from the corner of the room and presented Edward to himself, in the looking glass, he hardly recognise the image before him.

Gone was the gawky, dirty haired, bare foot urchin boy, all elbows and knees poking through thin cloth. In his place stood a young man, refined and dignified, flowing blond locks falling gracefully to his broad shoulders. Gone the elfin pinched face and in it's place the proud nascent features of the man that he would become.

"Well, well Sir, what a difference that makes," remarked Chesterton, not unimpressed with his own efforts. "They say clothes maketh the man, and they're not wrong in that."

Edward strutted up and down in his new finery, the stiff leather of his new boots a novel sensation, and though he felt very grand, he also felt somewhat uncomfortable, things rubbed where they had never before, and his toes were being pinched by the new boots.

"Boots are not as comfortable as bare foot," Edward informed Chesterton.

"You'll get used to them Mr. Black, once they're worn in a bit, I think you'll find they fit like a glove, or the tailor will be looking for a new post," remarked Chesterton. "Now it's time you were making your way to dinner Sir, no doubt his Lordship will be waiting on receive you."

Though Edward knew the way, Chesterton insisted on leading him to the forward gallery where, indeed, the Duke of Northumberland was waiting, and not alone. It appeared the Duke had arranged a small party.

Edward strode self-consciously into the gallery as the setting sun fell behind the Wetherby throwing long golden rays of orange light across the swiftly darkening sea. The Duke's other dinner guests were already assembled as Edward entered. He immediately recognised Captain Legate, Isambard Van Klees and Echart the Captain of the Wetherby, but the identities of the other two guests, a man and a woman, momentarily eluded him, then with a start, he realised the man was his friend Robert and the woman the Lady Carmine.

It appeared Robert had undergone something of the same transformation as himself, his straight dark hair cut and neatly combed, a clean white shirt, dark britches and boots and short blue shoulder cape, but it was the Lady Carmine who took his breath away. Of course he'd appreciated her beauty the moment he'd laid eyes on her, but now she wore her hair loose, flowing across her shoulders and down her back, her piercing green eyes set off against the dusky orange of her long flowing dress. As he caught her eye she curtsied to him.

"My lord," she simply said.

The Duke looked on with an amused expression. "Don't worry dear boy, she's given her word as a lady not to assassinate you tonight, besides which it would be most impolite of her to do so before we have eaten."

"Indeed," echoed Legate who from the look he gave her, clearly felt it was his duty to keep an eye on the deadly Baronetess in case she should be taken by any sudden urges to be anything less than impeccable in her manners.

"Hey Rob is that really you?" asked Edward of his friend approaching him across the room. Robert smiled and bowed to Edward. "Aye, tis I my lord," he replied.

This struck Edward as being odd. This was a change in his friend's attitude towards him, and despite the flattering title, he wasn't sure he liked hearing it come from Rob. Edward also noticed an almost imperceivable nod of approval from Legate which led him to conclude that Robert had been coached by the Captain in royal etiquette, or at least in how to behave towards the new Edward.

"How have you been?" he asked Robert. "Have you been looked after?"

"See for yourself," grinned Rob, then remembering himself, added, "my lord," before continuing, "I have these fine new clothes and boots the like of which I never dreamt would belong to me. It seems your fortune is smiling on us both."

"So it should my friend," replied Edward, before turning to the Lady Carmine and bowing as he'd seen Robert do.

"Lady Carmine, I'm so glad to see you, I trust you have been treated well?" he asked hoping this was the right kind of thing to say and noting the thin smile of amusement on Lady Carmine's lips that somehow suggested to him that no matter how exquisite the clothes a monkey was dressed in, it remained a monkey.

He leant in closer to her and spoke in low tones which the others couldn't hear. "May I say how sadened I was to hear of your Father's death. I know not whether I'm the Infante or just an orphan who chances to have the look of the old Emperor, but that matters not, for the loss I feel."

Lady Carmine looked momentarily shocked and for a moment as if she would say something, but she maintained her icy composure. "I will miss him greatly," continued Edward, "For all my life he was the only person to show me any kindness or compassion, he was in many ways the closest thing I had to a father, and now I know to what risk he put himself, while I'm sure it was something he did willingly, I would not have asked it of him had I known."

At this Lady Carmine's ridged expression momentarily broke and she showed real emotion both for her own and Edward's loss. In that moment she realised that her Father had been, as near as could be, the only Father Edward had known. In that instant there grew a bond between them born of their mutual grief. She reached out and laid a consoling hand on Edward's arm and said quietly, "I never realised."

The moment was interrupted by the ringing of fork on glass as the Duke drew everyone's attention.

"Lady and gentlemen, I would like to propose a toast," he announced. "We had long feared the lose of Edward Infante and believed him dead. Now he is returned and in due course, we hope, to be set upon the throne which is rightfully his. Let us now raise our glasses to Edward Infante."

"Edward Infante," the other chorused raising their glasses high.

Chapter 13 -  Kasteel De Haar
The following day, Edward rose from a good nights sleep and made his way to the observation gallery where Chesterton was serving breakfast. He sat with a cup of tea and looking out through the enormous window, watched the cold blue seas roll off to the far horizon.

Was he really the Infante? Or just a pawn in someone else's game, a lucky coincidence? But then there was the poem to consider. Carmene's father had taught him it and the Duke had known the poem too. And what of this League of the White Rose which the Duke had mentioned, his most loyal followers, was the Duke the only one left? How did he feel about being Edward Infante? His new situation was a world away from the life he had known up till now and everything felt strange, it sat uncomfortably with him, the clothes, the elegant rooms, the way people behaved towards him, it seemed in so many ways to be an illusion. He could almost believe the airship would land, and it would suddenly be over. Then again, Edward Infante, heir to the throne of England and the British Empire. It had a certain ring to it, and if it were true, could he live up to the task.

As he sat with these thoughts and doubts rushing round his head he saw something in the distance. As the minutes passed a long black line became visible on the horizon, and soon after Edward could clearly make out a thin line of golden sands and the green grass of land. At that moment Chesterton came into the room.

"I thought you'd like to know Sir, we are approaching the Dutch coast. I'm told by Captain Echart that we will be arriving shortly and the Duke has asked you ride with him in the Valiant to Kasteel De Haar, he will be departing within the hour. Edward spend a few more minutes watching as the land grew closer and closer, until the thin yellow strip of flat sands drifted under the airship and they now flew over the flat expanses of farmland which compose southern Holland.

The Duke was waiting for him in the Valiant with Robert and Captain Legate.

"Where's Lady Carmine and Isambard?" asked Edward.

"They ride in another other airship," said the Duke, "and follow us shortly."

The Valiant sliped her moorings and was haulled towards the dock doors by ten of the Wetherby's crew, where her engines, with a hiss of steam and belch of smoke began turning her propellers and she glided from the Wetherby under her own power. They rode for almost an hour before slowly loosing height as they arrived over the Kasteel.

The centre piece of Kasteel Van Haar was a proud, stone fortified keep, surrounded by vast rolling grounds. A grand manor and several surrounding buildings, constructed in a typical Dutch style, stood under the protecting wing of the keep, while lush lawns ran from the manor down to a lake of green placid waters. From his vantage point in the air Edward could see agricultural endeavour all around the estate; barns and traditional cottages, a field being ploughed, farm hands digging turnips and in the orchards, fruit pickers filling large carts with apples, pears and other fruit, while smoke rose lazily from both of the estates' bakeries and the blacksmith's forge.

The Valiant approached the main keep formed of a large rotund with castellated walls and an iron airship mast mounted on it's west rampart. The Valiant's nose cable was lowered and soldiers on the keep walls hauled the valiant to its berth at the mast. A few moments later the gangplank was lowered and passenger's were able to disembark.

At first Edward felt rather unsteady standing on firm ground again. While he was striding back and forth to get his ground legs, a pleasant middle-aged couple, well dressed with welcoming smiles, approached the disembarking group. The man, tall dark-haired and well built stepped forward and hugged the Duke.

"Guy, is good to see you again," he said in strongly accented English.

Turning to Edward the Duke said, "May I introduce your kind hosts, The Grand Duke Leopold and the Duchess, Cathrine Van Der Hoakfen," and turning to the Grand Duke and Duchess he introduced Edward, "The royal Infante Edward York."

"Your Highness," Grand Duke Leopold said to Edward, "I welcome you to De Haar, please treat our home as your home. My dear wife Cathrine has had rooms in the West wing for you prepared and also your entourage," the Grand Duke turned to Northumberland. "Naturally she has been putting you in your usual apartments my Dear Guy."

The grand Duke and Northumberland led the way down the keeps' spiral stone staircase while the grand Duchess let Edward take her arm and they followed, with Robert, Captain Legate and Chesterton bringing up the rear.

To Edward the grand Duchess was the most elegant woman he'd ever seen. Diminutive where her husband was stocky. She wore her long blond hair in a single plat which ran down her back all the way to her narrow waist, and she wore a simple gold head band. Her long green dress cascaded to the floor. While she walked the hem of the garment seemed to ripple like water around her feet as she gracefully descended the keeps steps.

"How was your journey my Lord?" she asked politely, her English also heavily accented with Dutch tones. "Not too tiring I trust?"

"No, not at all," Edward assured her, as the journey had been far from so to his mind, it had  been rather exciting, impressive and somewhat instructive, and if he were honest with himself, a little bewildering and new.

"I hope you will find your stay with us pleasant my Lord," said the grand Duchess. "I personally over saw the appointment of your rooms. They are the very rooms your father used when he last visited with us, though it seems so long ago now."

"I'm sure I'll like them as much as he did," said Edward, now quite excited to see the rooms, to see something of his father, the father he knew nothing about.

At some point the grand Duke and the Duke of Northumberland had disappeared without Edward noticing, and he found himself alone with the Duchess being led down a wide corridor in the west wing of the manor. Deep rich red carpets covered the floors while small dark statues stood in alcoves placed at regular intervals all along the corridor. At length they came to an impressive set of rich oak double doors and stopped. It was a moment or two before Edward realised the grand Duchess was waiting for him to open the door. He took the large brass handle in his hand and gave it a good heave. The door was far better oiled and far lighter on its hinges than he had expected and it flew open. Within lay a palatial room, marble floored covered with woven carpets from the middle east, delicately carved furniture was tastefully placed and tall gold framed portraits of people he didn't recognise looked down at him from the walls.

Grand Duchess Cathrine walked across the room towards double doors which led to a balcony, but before she reached these she paused by a small picture hung over a walnut bureaux.

"This picture hangs normally in the long gallery below, but I though you might like to have it here in your rooms," she said.

Edward looked at the picture, a man and a woman were standing arm in arm under the spreading branches of a tree. A horse stood close by and in the background a castle could be seen on a far hill.

"The Emperor Victor II and his consort Elisabeth, your father and mother," the grand Duchess told him.

Edward looked closely at the couple, so these were the parents he'd missed so terribly all his life, the people he'd hoped would one day come and take him away from Blacksteel Orphanage, but they had never come for him, and now he knew why.

The man in the picture looked every inch an Emperor, tall and hansom, dark haired with a regal nose. The woman pale and beautiful. There was something a little melancholy though in  their expressions as if they some how knew, or suspected, what fate had in store for them.

"Of course this was painted before your birth, or you would have been in it," the grand Duchess told him. "it was a few weeks after the painting was completed that they announced she was carrying you."

"You are most gracious and thoughtful," Edward told her.

"Well no doubt you wish to settle in to your new surroundings, I'll leave you to explore. Please feel free to go anywhere you like while you are here, and if you need anything, just call. Pull on this cord and a servant will come and attend you," she told him.

Edward thanked her again as she swept regally from the room leaving just the faintest impression of her having been there. Edward looked around the room, tried a couple of the chairs, looked at all the paintings, though he kept coming back to the portrait of his parents. Eventually he began to wonder where the bed was, it seemed a little strange to him that the room had no bed, perhaps he was supposed to sleep on one of the generous couches. He was trying a couch for comfort while thinking how strange royalty was when a door he had not been aware of opened and Chesterton's familiar figure entered.

"Ah Mr. Black, there you are. I have taken the liberty of putting myself in the gentleman's gentleman's room and Mr. Badger in the first companion's chamber, an arraignment I trust you find satisfactory?" he announced.

"Er, yes I'm sure Chesterton. You couldn't show me where the bed is in here could you?" asked Edward.

"The bed Sir?" Chesterton looked confused. "Yes, you know, where I'm to sleep if there's no handy cupboard."

"Ha ha, yes I see Mr. Black. I think maybe you are wanting to see the grand chamber which is through this way," Chesterton indicated the door he had just come through. "I have already unpacked your things ready for you."

"I have things?" asked Edward in surprise. 

"Indeed you do Mr. Black. You have shirts and britches, coats and boots, combs and brushes, shall I show them to you?" offered Chesterton.

"Please," replied Edward. He followed Chesterton thought to a smaller room which was dominated by a large four poster bed. A dresser stood by the window with Edward's toiletries neatly laid out, while a large wardrobe and chest of draws contained his clothing.

"Through this door is Mr. Badger's chamber, and through this one is mine, so that we may be of service to you at a moments notice. Captain Legate's rooms are across the corridor from your own, it is he who has suggested these arraignments will provide good security."

"Good security? I need security?" asked an amazed Edward.

"I really wouldn't know Mr. Black, I'm merely conveying Captain Legate's meditations on the matter," replied Chesterton.

"I think I should have a word with Captain Legate about that," said Edward ready to dash off and confront Legate in his rooms.

"Before you do so Sir, I have something for you, from the Duke of Northumberland," said Chesterton holding out a small wooden box about the size of a cigar case. Edward took it in his hands. It was made of highly polished wood and had the Imperial crest embossed on the lid. Edward opened it with curiosity.

Inside the box lay two small red leather bound books which at first glance looked identical. One had the words 'The Art of War' stamped in guilt foil on the cover, the other Edward couldn't read. Flicking through the second book he discovered the entire volume was written in some unfamiliar language. The box also contained two notes, one in English, the other in the unknown language. Edward read the former.

"My Dear Edward," wrote the Duke, "I have to return to England with much urgency to attend to business which I have too long neglected, for which I hope you will excuse me. I leave you with a small gift, these two books, both of which contain the same text, while one is in English the other is in the Imperial language and are the very books my father gave me to learn from. The other note is written in the Imperial Language and I expect you to tell me what it says on my return in a few months time. During my absence you can safely confide in your hosts and Captain Legate to whom I have entrusted your safety, and in whom I have complete confidence."

Edward put the note back in the box and placed it by the bedside. At that moment came a knock at the door, Chesterton went to answer it and it was Captain Legate.

"Ah Edward, settling in? I trust you got the note from your Uncle? And Chesterton has explained the room arrangements?" he asked.

"I understand your precautions," replied Edward, "but why do I need security?"

A grim look passed over Legate's face. "I was hoping your Uncle would have told you more," he said, "but I can see that for now you will have to make do with explanations from Isambard and myself. To be honest Edward your Uncle is the one who truly understands the political machinations of the English Court, but he conveyed to me the understanding that, should Victor III discover your whereabouts, you would be in grave danger. As I understand it Victor would be unable to send a significant force against you here in Holland, so he will undoubtedly use assassins. Your Uncle has also asked that I train you in the martial arts, sword, pistol and rife as well as bow and hand to hand combat."

"I see," said Edward, "did he say anything else?"

"He hopes you will concede to taking instruction from Isambard in matters of science and from the Grand Duchess in the finer arts of etiquette, dance, music and statesmanship," replied the Captain.

"It seems my new Uncle has thought of everything," replied Edward.

The next few months passed in a blur to Edward. In the mornings he and Robert trained with the Captain in the magnificently equipped gymnasium at the Van Hoakfen Manor. They learnt sword fighting with epe and foil as well as sabre and short sword, English bare fist boxing and a Chinese fighting style which the Captain called Kung Foo. It seemed Rob was better at these fighting styles than Edward, and while Edward put up a good fight, it was only a few weeks before Rob was able to give the Captain a run for his money.

In the Afternoons Edward attended with Isambard, if the old man was not too engrossed in some new mechanism or theory he was working on, or with Lady Cathrine who's gentle yet persuasive style quickly taught him the basics of the finer arts.

One afternoon a week or so after the Duke had departed Edward was taking his first dancing lesson with Lady Cathrine. She showed him the footwork and coached him in the basic steps.

"You know it would be useful for you to dance to music," said the grand Duchess thoughtfully, "I wonder who we have who could partner you while I play," she mused.

"What about Lady Carmine?" suggested Edward.

The grand Duchess looked a little worried at this idea. "She is very dangerous," she said simply.

"I think she will behave herself," said Edward. "Can we at least go and ask her?"

"Well I'm not sure, perhaps we should take Captain Legate with us," the grand Duchess suggested.

"I think he went out to inspect the fields with the grand Duke," said Edward. "Come on, where is she being held?"

"Her rooms are in the East wing, as far from yours as possible," said Lady Cathrine reluctantly.

"Well lets pay her a visit and see if she will help teach me to dance," said Edward.

With some reluctance the grand Duchess led him to the Lady Carmine's apartments. There was no additional security to Lady Carmine's rooms that Edward could see. He knew the grand Duchy maintained its own army, a modest one but well equipped and well trained non-the-less and the Manor house itself contained a small garrison. The main hallway and stairs always had a ceremonial guard on duty and for all their ceremony, their pistols and swords were real, modern and effective.

He knocked on Lady Carmine's door. A moment later the door was opened by the Lady herself.

"Hello Edward," she said.

Edward looked into her cool green eyes. "the grand Duchess and I were wondering if you might help me with my dancing." Edward said. "I'd be most grateful if you would."

"Arn't you afraid I might kill you?" she asked with her usual directness.

"Will you promise not to?" asked Edward. "Will you give your word as a Lady not to run away not to try and kill me?"

She appeared to think about it for a moment then, almost smiling, agreed with a slight nod of her head.

After that Edward's dancing began to improve rapidly. Twice a week Lady Carmine joined him  in the music salon, and while the grand Duchess played the piano, he held Lady Carmine in his arms and whirl her around the room. It was swiftly become the highlight of his week.

Edward's skills continued to develop as spring turned to summer, until late one fine day, the Duke of Northumberland returned from business in England, bringing grave news with him.


Chapter 14 – Van Klees workshop
It was a warm evening and the stars shone through a deep blue sky as the Duke's airship descended over Kasteel De Haar. A few minutes latter, just in time for dinner, the Duke strode into the dinning hall. The other residents of the Manor were already gathered to eat, and since Lady Carmine had politely agreed not to assassinate Edward, she now often joined them at the evening meal.

The Duke strode towards Edward with a sense of urgency. "We need to talk my boy," he said, "but first lets eat."

Despite the apparent urgency the Duke proceeded to settle down to a leisurely meal and would say nothing more at the table. It was quite some time before he was replete and suggested to Edward and Captain Legate that they join him in his private study.

Taking a seat each the Duke offered goldfish bowl glasses of French wine and cigars from the new world which he'd picked up in London. Eventually Edward and the Captain were settled to the Duke's satisfaction and he finally began.

"I take it, things have been uneventful here while I was gone?" he asked them both.

"Nothing of interest to report your Lordship," Legate replied, "though you may like to go through the day logs which I have kept," he added.

"Very well, then I shall tell of my adventures in England. As you know I had various business matters to attend to, but these provide good reason for me to move about the country and ask questions," he drew upon his cigar and blew a ring of blue smoke.

"First I felt it important to try and ascertain to what extent Victor, the Emperor in Parentis, knows of your situation Edward. My first impression at court was he knew nothing of your return and I had hoped to get some word to your mother, but these plans I'm afraid fell short. I also hoped to contact members of the League of the White Rose, but I was unsuccessful in this too. Victor has had ten years to hunt them down and those whom I knew, or suspected of having sympathies with the league, have either disappeared or are too afraid to show their support."

"That was when I made an error for which I hope you will forgive me. It was a calculated risk, one I felt worth taking, but it failed. I thought our cause might be best served if it became known, or at least rumoured that you are alive Edward, and to that end I engaged a couple of trusted agents who began circulating such. It was my hope this would cause your Uncle to make a move, I even hoped, to reconsider his position, but I must confess I underestimated him."

"Which ever way you look at it, it serves our purpose for people to think you alive, to give them a rallying point, something to believe in. However your Uncle's fears that you were not killed in childhood, have now been confirmed, and though he has indicated he never completely believed such, my actions have given him strong reason to react. Not long after I spread the news of your survival a new rumour started, one that certainly came from within the palace walls, that a pretender threatens the Imperial throne. Imperial agents scour the country looking for this pretender and using it as an excuse to carry out some of your Uncles' less savoury orders."

"What I know for sure, is that so far, he does not suspect me of being directly involved, at least no more than he suspects anyone. He does not know your whereabouts, but, he keeps your mother close to him these days and I was unable to visit with my sister alone, nor to get word to her. We are for the time being at least, safe here. We face a new problem, when the time comes, of proving to the world that you are no pretender, Edward," the Duke slumped back in his seat a dejected look on his face.

"I will return to England in a few days time and carry on search the for members of the League, meanwhile you should continue with your studies Edward," the Duke said.

While the Duke's return was a welcome break in the normal routine at De Haar, his disappointing news was far from being so. Never-the-less it set Edward to thinking about the issues of being a statesman. He would indeed need to be well prepared in order to over-throw his Uncle, the Emperor, and with this in mind he applied himself with renewed vigour to his studies.

Along side the arts of war, Captain Legate taught the two boys to ride horse at which Robert proved himself to be marginally the better horseman. A steam car was put at Edward's disposal by the grand Duke and Captain Legate instructed him in its operation, something to which Edward with his experience of engines, readily took too, and whenever he had the time he would conduct the car across the vast Van Hoakfen Estate, sometimes with Rob riding along side and once with the Lady Carmine as his passenger.

The day he rode with Carmine was a warm pleasant summers' day. The afternoon sun had passed its zenith but was yet still high in the sky when they set out. Much of the route took them down leaf lined trails who's roadside trees provided them with dappled shade. Edward was thoroughly enjoying himself, the beautiful Lady Carmine sat beside him, he threw the machine into the corners causing far more steam and hiss than was necessary. If he'd been able to see himself he would have known he was showing off. As they came round a wooded copse on the south side of the estate the steam-car coughed, shuddered and came to an abrupt halt, unseating the passengers, but not with violence enough to throw them to the ground.

Edward jumped from the drivers' seat and walked to the back of the machine scratching his head as he inspected the gauges and meters. He was intent on finding the cause of the problem so it came as a shock to find Lady Carmine standing right behind him.

"You know I could dispatch you right now, with a single blow," she said softly into his ear.

"Then why don't you?" challenged Edward, turning to face her. 

She smiled her cold smile at him. "I've been thinking about it. I'm not sure it's my job any more though." she seemed to slump a degree as she said this as if some invisible strength had gone from her and she sat down on the soft grass at the side of the road.

"I was recruited right out of school into to the Ministry of Imperial Security," she continued dreamily, "and sent to Scotland for training. I thought it was all very exciting and romantic at the time. Then I was sent under Imperial edict to find the pretender, and if necessary, kill him. I didn't know about my father's involvement in rescuing the Infante, but now I'm thinking  perhaps the Emperor had my father killed, his death begins to look suspicious to me."

"So I'm no longer the enemy?" asked Edward.

She looked down at the ground between them and said, "Maybe not."

He knelt down and took her hand in his and looked into her eyes. "It's alright, I don't mind that you tried to kill me."

"But now I want to do something to help, to make up for it. I thought I might be allowed to teach you some of the skills I learnt at the Ministry. If you are to defend yourself against assassination you'll need to know some of the tricks of the trade," she suggested.

"I think it's a great idea, but I suppose we will have to talk to captain Legate about it," said Edward.

"So you don't hold it against me?" she asked.

Edward thought a moment. "No not at all. I guess we all do what we have to at the time and that's what you did. I'm just pleased your not intent on killing me any more."

She smiled back at him and for a moment they stood there holding hands and gazing into each others eyes before she pulled away and turned saying, "Perhaps we should get the car running again."

A half hour fiddling with levers and valves and Edward was able to get the machine working again. He leapt up on the drivers seat and set the engine running with a satisfying chug. Lady Carmine climbed up beside him and they set off again on their tour of the estate.

The following day, during morning training, Edward brought up the subject of Lady Carmine instructing him the arts of assassination, to which Captain Legate reluctantly agreed with the condition he was present during such lessons. He did not trust the Baronetess and did not want to risk a demonstration going lethally wrong.

Later, after lunch, when Edward was with Grand Duchess Cathrine in the library studying, she said something to him. "Edward, it occurs to me it must be difficult for you, not having grown up within the royal family. You know, while my husband Leopold was growing up his lineage was mentioned everyday, every staircase has a portrait of some august ancestor or other, the library is  full of medals and awards from the Emperors and Kings of Europe. For Leopold the business of Monarchy, of being royalty, comes as second nature, it has been bread into him from an early age, but you, you were taken from this world. You will need to work hard to come to know the things an Emperor must know, in order to rule well and wisely. Not only are there finer arts, singing, dancing, poetry and so on, but also the arts of statesmanship."

"You must learn what a king expects, and what is expected of a king. You must learn who your friends and enemies are, who to attack, and when, who to ally with and who might betray you. This new life of yours Edward, may be richer and more luxurious than your old life, but do not be deceived, it is more dangerous and more demanding. You must prepare yourself well, it is only a matter of time before you must inevitably confront your Uncle Victor. Use the time you have here with us well, young Edward, it will not last forever."

Edward nodded gravely. He understood what Grand Duchess Cathrine was telling him and he fully intended to make the best use of his time at the castle. It was with this determination that he threw himself into all the lessons that were available to him and he persisted with those skills in which he did not show promise, as well as honing those he did. The grand Duchess words rang true however, and as spring came on Edward received a message from the Duke requesting he join him in London for an important meeting.

Edward and Robert were fencing in the gymnasium when a footman arrived hot and flushed
from his run along the east wing and up the west wing of the castle.

"Your lordship, Proffesor Van Klees requests your presence urgently in his workshop," the footman panted.

"Thanks Gustaff," replied Edward. "Well I'd better trot along and see what the old man has to say," he told Robert taking off his fencing mask and hanging his blade in the rack.

Edward jogged along the wide corridors past the portraits and busts on their ornate wooden stands and through the blue room barely noticing the imposingly delicate chandelier and the exquisite Louis XIV desk and chairs. As he ventured further up the east wing there was an air of neglect, the paintings and statues seemed darker and more foreboding, dust particles hung in the still air and from time to time an unearthly groan or a great clang could be heard coming from the door at the end. Edward knew the housekeeper didn't like coming up here and Isambard actively encouraged the staff to stay away, he didn't like people snooping around the workshop. All of this was familiar to Edward as he cheerfully pushed open the door and strode in. 

As usual it was hard to find Isambard amongst the many contraptions and machines which filled the sizeable space. He had grown used to the mechanical beasts and flailing armatures which might leap out at him at any moment. He trod carefully to make sure he didn't step on some important but escaped piece of apparatus and tiptoed his way around a large dark steel egg shaped thing which stood eight feet high and which Edward could neither see nor guess what earthly use it was.

In the far corner of the room Isambard had a row of tables against the wall. Shelves and cabinets of small wooden draws which might contain anything from the tiniest of springs to the largest of bolts, bunches of herbs,  or lumps of rock or jars of powder. Dominated the area was the huge wide cabinet where Isambard kept his drawings and diagrams, well ordered, in shallow, but deep and wide, draws.

As Edward approached the tables he could just make out the figure of the old man hunched over something. Becoming aware of his visitors' presence, Isambard released the diagram he was inspecting and let it roll-up into a loose cylinder of paper which he deftly tightened with his thumb before sliding it carefully back into a protective cardboard tube.

"Ah, there you are," said Isambard, as if the boy had somehow wondered off a while ago and was now returned.

"You sent Gustaff to call me," said Edward.

"Gustaff? I did? Well I must have had a reason. Would you like a cup of tea?" asked the old man.

"I'm fine thank you," replied Edward impatient for the old man to get to the point.

"Now let me see, what was it?" he scratched his white beard thoughtfully, and idly flicked through the lenses he wore mounted on his unusual glasses, a strange looking device, of the Professor's own invention which by an arrangement of small levers allowed him to apply or remove the lenses before his eyes, thus giving him the ability to see things at many times magnification both near and far, or filtered through coloured glass.

"Ah yes, now I recall, a message from Guy, your Uncle the Duke. He was most excited when he spoke to me..."

"He's been here, he's back from England?" interrupted Edward.

"Ah no," replied Isambard. "I fear I am being unclear, your Uncle's message conveyed his excitement, he wishes you to join him in London for a most important matter. You will of course be accompanied by Captain Legate and Robert Badger."

"And Carmine," added Edward.

"You're Uncle was not specific about the young lady," replied Isambard.

"So she can come?"

"If that is what you wish, it is not for me to say who can go where or do what my young friend. Now you are all to travel in disguise. Your Uncle and I have though long and hard about this and we have devised what we think will be an effective cover for you. Let me see," the old man began rummaging through the piles of paper, boxes and bits of machine that were being used as paperweights.

"Ah ha, here it is," he waived a handful of documents at Edward. "Your cover story," he tapped the papers with his finger tip. "You are to be the Young Prince Constantine Prevaclouz III of the Grand Duchy of Swzaskol. The Grand Duchy is an unimportant state in Eastern Europe who's allegiances are unknown and who's ruling class has not been seen in England for a generation. It will be assumed that you have come to see if you can negotiate some kind of alliance, trade agreement, or whatever. This will allow you to mix at the British court without raising suspicion or interest."

"I have instructed the tailor to make appropriate garments for you and your retinue, I suppose I must now instruct the seamstress to create something appropriate for the young Baronetess as well. You will have to construct a story for her, make her your sister or cousin or something and I will have some documents made up for her," Isambard said with a dismissive wave of his hand.

"You must familiarise yourself with your new identities," he continued. "The A.S. Valiant arrives soon, to take you to London, but first I have something for you, a gift of sorts."

Despite his age Isambard moved with a light and sprightly spring to his step and he shot across the room towards a polished cabinet which stood in the far corner. He took a large brass key and fitted it into the closed lid of the cabinet, turned the key and lowered the lid until it was parallel to the floor, forming a table surface. Inside the cabinet lay a sword which Isambard picked up and presented to Edward.

"This may look like an ordinary sword, but it has a deadly secret hidden just here, in the hand-guard," he turned the blade over so Edward could see inside the hand-guard basket constructed from steel rods woven in an intricate pattern.

"See here, where the guard meets the blade, a small ring?"

Edward looked and saw what seemed like the trigger guard on a gun and he said as much.

"Indeed," the old man cried with joy, "you see this is a gun as well. Only three shots mind you, the magazine is cleverly concealed in the handle and the barrel is part of the blade," he indicated with his finger, a small slanted hole near the tip, in the lower part of the blade, where the bullets would exit from.

Turning back to the cabinet Isambard picked up a small box. Opening it he revealed an ornate chronometer on a chain. "This is a most accurate time piece," said Isambard. "The mechanism need only be wound once a week and is, of course, set to Greenwich mean time. But turn it over and on the reverse side is a compass," he turned the watch over to show Edward that by flipping open the base cover, a compass could be revealed. He gave the watch to Edward who carefully put it into his pocket.

"And finally I have this little beauty," the old man held out a highly polished ornate box about the size of his hand. The lid of the box held a relief carving of a scarab beetle. Using a finger to ease up the small latch which held the box closed, Isambard lifted the lid, opening the box towards Edward. On a cushion of silk in a padded slot cut to fit, lay a golden coloured beetle with jewelled eyes, like the one depicted on the box lid, with a strange eye shaped image in a triangular device engraved on its shell. Isambard carefully picked up the mechanical insect and held it out to Edward.

"This is an Eye of Ra beetle from my own workshops," declared Isambard. "Not only is is an exquisite broach but, turn it over and look," he instructed.

Edward turned the beetle over. On its belly, between its legs sat a series of small leavers.

"These are the controls," explained Isambard. "By setting this first set of switches we can give the beetle coordinates to fly to, and a direction to look in," taking the beetle from Edwards' hand Isambard configured the tiny switches with his fingernail then holding the beetle out on the flat palm of his hand he gently depressed the beetle's head. Immediately the mechanism inside the metal insect began to whir in a soft, almost beetle like way. The carapace split open and the two wing like halves of its casing began to flutter with incredible speed. The beetle shot up in the air, then buzzed round in a circle before turning to look at Edward and the Professor then returned to the old man's outstretched hand. He looked at Edward and grinned.

"Now for the clever part," he announced placing the insect on a large piece of paper on the table. He depressed its rear and after a few moments whirring the insect began clacking its legs and scurried back and forth across the sheet of paper leaving a tiny spider trail of black ink behind it. After a while it became clear to Edward that the beetle was drawing an image, a picture of himself and Isambard, standing in Isambard's workshop, looking up at something.

Isambard clapped his hands with glee. "That's quite something isn't it?" he chortled. "Look, that's quite clearly you and me stood there. Look at the expression on your face."

Edward was amazed, he'd never seen anything like it.

"It will need winding each time you use it, with the key from the box, and has enough ink for five or six drawings before it needs refilling. Make sure you wipe its feet so they don't become clogged with old ink," he warned and wiped the feet with a small cloth before placed the wondrous mechanism back in its box.

"You had better be on your way now young Edward, you need to ready yourself and your friends for the trip to London.
Chapter 15 – London Town
Edward, Robert, Carmine and Captain Legate assembled in a room immediately below the Kasteel turret which served as the castle's airship dock. Each member of the party resplendent in their new Swazaskolian outfit. The men in green felt Tyrolean hats with goose feather, embroidered blouson shirts and brown moleskin britches. Lady Carmine wore a simple rose pink blouse and long green skirt with a full-length velvet cloak, lined with silk. Edward thought they all looked suitably foreign and eastern European in appearance, though he had no idea what eastern Europeans wore. He  suggested they adopt some suitably foreign accents, but Isambard, despite his own thick Dutch accent, said European Aristocrats were usually at great effort to sound as English as the Emperor, with the exception of the French and Spanish, who took great effort to sound as French or Spanish as possible, perhaps because to the hostilities between them and the British, perhaps as a matter of national pride.

"So young Edward, this is quite the adventure we are embarked upon," remarked Captain Legate. "I hope you are prepared."

"I trust in your training Captain," replied Edward. "And where it may be remiss, I'm sure I can rely on the good advice I have received from Professor Van Klees," he teased Legate, who snorted something unintelligible.

"Boys, I do believe the Valiant is approaching," said Carmine. "I suggest we ascend to the mooring mast and wait for her there."

A few minutes later they stood watching as a sailor moored the Valiant and the gangway was lowered to the turret allowing them all to climb aboard. The instant Captain Legate, who was last up the gangway, had stepped aboard, the Valiant rose up into the blue skies. Edward chose to remain on the narrow walkway which ran around the side of the airship, and though the wind was chilling it offered him the best views as they sailed over the flat pastoral landscape of Northern Holland.

After an hour or so the Valiant reached the Dutch coast and began crossing the English Channel heading directly for London. Below he saw white sails and the bobbing hulls of fishing boats, dark plumes of smoke puffed from steam boats stacks as they plied the grey blue waters of the English Channel. The sea showed no fleck of foam, no chop or swell, but held to a placid glassy surface. At one point a shoal of dolphin or porpoise chased the airship's shadow over the waves, appearing to fly across the water as they played and raced below, the sunlight shining on their oily skins.

It was just past the midday hour when the mouth of the Thames hove into view and soon after  Edward saw the skyline of the great city in the distance. London, the heart of the British Empire, the jewel in the crown, and what a jewel. As the Thames wound westward through the city Edward could see the streets and buildings laid out below him, along the north bank bank the great buildings of government, Big Ben, Westminster palace, Trafalgar and the Admiralty, the seat of the British Civil Service and bureaucracy, from where the entire Empire and it's colonies were commanded. On the opposition side the great cultural experiences of the South bank, the colossal Ferris wheel with it's Viennese style carriages which gave the great populace an eagle eyed view of the city, the markets, restaurants and public houses, artists communes. Floating over this seething mass of people and grand architecture floated numerous airships of every colour.

If he had been better acquainted with the livery and crests of the European aristocracy and the great industrialists Edward would have known the large black airship with the blood red double headed eagle which was docked at Charring Cross mast, was the Ambassador of the Russian Republic's ship, and the gold and red ship docked at a Soho mast was that of the Ambassador of the King of Spain. Right across the city Edward could see airships gracefully crossing the sky and docking at masts in clusters of twos and threes like the oversized petals of surreal and gigantic flowers blooming above the rooftops. There was a particularly large grouping of ships over Victoria Station, this being the closest mast to Buckingham Palace, the seat of the Empire and home of the Emperor, Victor III.

As she came up the river and past over the centre of the city, the Valiant began to descend to the airfield at Battersea park. As the ship sank lower Edward could make out faces of the people sailing the various craft which plied the Thames. Boats of all shapes, sizes and colours, large cargo barges hauled coal from the North, cotton from the Colonies, wool for the mills and iron for the foundries, other boats carried people across the river or made a trade selling bread and pies, ale and cakes to the barge workers or carried household items, enamelled buckets,  steel files, scissors, gun barrels, penknives, sword hilts and any fashion of imaginable and useful goods, while yet others carried high class silks and linens or herbs and spices from the East and the Orient. Many of these vessels were headed for  the floating market at Hendon.

"You had better hold on tight," one of the Valiant's sailors told Edward. "We are about to moor and it might get a bit bumpy."

Edward nodded to the man and heeded his advice, and held the thin rope railing which was all that was between him and a deadly fall. The Valiant's pilot brought the ship in to dock with great expertise and if they hadn't been bumped by a neighbouring ship just as the breeze changed direction, it would have been a perfect landing. As it was at the last moment the ships' hull shuddered and jarred against its neighbour and Edward would have been thrown from his lofty perch if he had not heeded the sailor's advice.

A few moments later the airship was made secure and the party able to descend from the Valiant to the green grass of Battersea Park. Almost immediately the Valiant loosed its moorings and rose back into the air freeing the spot for its already approaching replacement.

A brass and iron, closed, steam-car rumbled across the field towards the group and came to a halt before them in a cloud of steam and a hissing of pistons. The drivers' door popped open with a dull clank and Chesterton jumped out dressed in a long leather driving coat and thick goggles.

"Good day Lady and Gentlemen, if you are ready I have transportation to take you to Fairfield House where your gracious hosts the Blatchington-Smythes are waiting to receive you." He opened the passenger door for them.

As Edward waited for the others to climb aboard the steam-car he noticed it was unmarked except for a simple flower motif embossed on the passenger doors. Climbing aboard he pulled the door shut and a moment later Chesterton was building up pressure in the main cylinder and they were off chugging along at a brisk trot. At the edge of the park they followed a stream of steam vehicles and horse drawn carriages onto the main thoroughfare.

A mass of humanity pressed in the streets, beggars and priests, tradesmen, washer women and urchins. A large man in a big white apron covered in flour dust carried a wooden tray on his head shouting, "Hot cakes, get your hot cakes." A haggard faced old woman with a big red nose and black hooded cloak thrust a bunch of flowers up at the car window crying, "Buy some flowers young Sirs, please buy my flowers, they'll bring good luck they will."

Progress was slow over a packed Battersea bridge and along Beaufort Street, but once they had turned on to the Kings Road the traffic became swifter as the way was now free of street vendors, sightseers and day-trippers. Elegantly dress gentlemen and elaborately dressed ladies perambulated leisurely along wide pavements admiring the rare and expensive goods displayed in shop windows by purveyors of the finest merchandise to the gentry and even, to the Emperor himself. Shops lucky enough to make this claim proudly displayed the Emperor's coat of arms on their windows.

Shortly they arrived at Sloan Square and past through to the north going on into Eaton Gate where, after taking a turn or two along the park streets, pulled up in front of a modest house in a secluded mews just around the corner from Belgrave Square Gardens.  A black painted iron railing guarded the basement light-well and a small stone bridge formed the front steps leading to a black painted door with a shiny brass knocker, letter-flap and the number twenty two.

As the steam-car came to a halt outside the house the door opened and a butter stepped out to help usher the foreign aristocrats indoors. "His Lordship is please to receive you inside," he said, before passing a few discreet words with Chesterton about arraignments.

Rob led the others into to the cool of the marble floored entrance hall. A tall well dressed man in his late fifties with a large grey moustache, a red face and something of a twinkle in his eye was grumbling at a large grandfather clock which stood at one side of the hallway.

"Blinking thing never seems to keep time what," he said, seemingly addressing the clock itself, then he turned and saw his guests.

Rob stepped forward and said, "Sir Blatchington-smythe may I present his Highness Prince Constantine Prevaclouz of the Grand Duchy of Swzaskol, and his Cousin Princess Claudine."

Edward clipped a smart bow to the Englishman, who returned a deep nod.

"The prince is most grateful for your kind hospitality during his visit to your beautiful country," continued Rob.

"Yes, well your very welcome, just make yourselves at home I'm sure, My wife, Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe will be joining us in just a moment I'm sure," this last remark was delivered at a considerably louder volume and accompanied by a glance up the stairs. With a palpable sense of relief from Sir Blatchington-Smythe the lady herself appeared at the head of the staircase and hurried down to greet her guests.

"A, ha, I hope Gerald has made you comfortable," said Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe, slightly out of breath and still tucking a stray lock of auburn hair under an elaborate blue silk hat, she put her best 'meeting Royalty' smile on her pretty pink face. Edward couldn't help noticing as she bobbed and curtsied that she was a good many years younger than her husband.

"A pleasure to meet you," said Edward, taking Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe's delicate hand and kissing it while looking into her eyes. She smiled, almost giggling and curtsied again while her fingers wiggled in his hand.

"You have a beautiful wife Sir," said Edward.

"You are too gratuitous your highness," she replied. "May I also introduce our daughter Penelope." A slim figure in a striking, deep blue dress walked gracefully down the stairs, a younger, even more beautiful version of her mother.

"Your Highness," the young girl said in soft clear tones as she curtsied. Edward took her hand and kissed it while gazing into to big blue eyes.

At that moment Chesterton and the Butler came in. "Ah Smedley," said Sir Blatchington-Smythe addressing the Butler. "This damn clock seems to be loosing time again. Send a boy to fetch the timekeeper and we'll get her put straight again." Smedley was dully dispatched.

"If I may?" said Edward taking from his waistcoat pocket the watch Van Der Klees had given him and popping the cover up. "I have three o'clock."

"Um, are you sure your highness, it doesn't seem so late in the day," said Sir Blatchington-Smythe.

"Ah, yes off course," said Edward. "My timepiece is on Paris time."

"And we are on Greenwich time your highness, it is two o'clock here in London, by your watch, which like mine makes the clock slow also."

The timekeeper arrived, a sprightly lady in her fifties dressed in black. With great ceremony she produced a timepiece the size of an orange and after careful examination of its face she declared it to be two minutes passed two, agreeing exactly with Edward's watch.

"Well that settles it then, this damn hall clock is slow."

"Now dear, I'm sure our guests have heard more than enough about the inadequacies of our hall clock," Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe chided her husband. "They may prefer to freshen themselves after their long journey," she suggested.

Penelope, who's gaze had been firmly on Edward's face throughout this watched him with her big blue eyes as Smedley led the party up the stairs.

In his room, a large, airy, well appointed, space with a view overlooking the street, Edward felt the heat of Carmine's gaze on the back of his neck.

"I'm not sure I trust these Blatchington-Smythe's," she said haughtily from the doorway. "Particularly the simpering mother and the doe eyed daughter."

Edward laughed, "I do believe you are jealous."

Carmine gave him a heated look and crossing her arms turned her back on him.

"They seemed fine to me," said Rob, which earned him a glare over the shoulder from Carmine.

Chesterton enterd the room. "Your highness, the Duke of Northumberland has sent invitations for you and your cousin to join him at the Emperor's ball tomorrow night at the Crystal Palace. If you are so inclined, he will send a carriage to collect you, and the Blatchington-Smythe's request the honour of your presence at a small banquet they are throwing here tonight, in your honour."

"No doubt so they can thrust that daughter of theirs at Edward all evening," remarked Carmine, her green eyes flashing with contempt.

"They are our hosts, and we mustn't raise any suspicions," warned Captain Legate. "You should attend the banquet Edward and play the part of Swzaskolvian Prince to the full. As to their daughter, well you'll be there to keep an eye on your cousin Lady Carmine and ensure he comes to no harm."

They made their excuses and left Edward alone in his room. Having washed his face and changed his shirt for an even more elaborately embroidered one, he felt he aught to have a word with Carmine, who seemed to him, to be behaving very strangely. He found her alone in the room laid out for her, which was almost as large as his own.

"Is everything all-right?" asked Edward.

"Fine, everything is fine, why shouldn't it be?" she retorted curtly.

"I don't know, you seem a little out of sorts is all," replied Edward.

"Everything is fine," she repeated, then after a moments reflection, "I suppose being in London again reminds me of my Father and how much I miss him."

Edward stood silent feeling her lose.

"You know he had a little rhyme he would tell me when I was feeling down," she said, "It's silly really but it always made me feel better."

"With flowing locks of golden hair
like sunlit corn in summer air
so fair of face and lips so red
as autumn berries, it is said

Her smile so sweet and filled with joy
would take the heart of any boy
from golden locks to pinky toes
so fair and true a northern rose

She danced and laughed beneath a tree
who heard her felt their sorrows flee
from vision of her, slow to part
so beautiful a southern heart"

"How strange," mused Edward, "that your father should have given us each half a poem. I think it means something."

"I always thought it was about me," confessed Carmine.

"We should tell Isambard about it as soon as we get the chance," Edward suggested. "That is, if it's agreeable with you."

"Do you really think it means something?" she asked.

"Well it sounds like it does, but Isambard will know for sure," Edward replied confidently.

A knock came at the door and Carmine called "enter", it was Chesterton.

"Your Highnesses the Blatchington-Smythe's guests are beginning to arrive and I fear the evenings entertainment can not properly begin without your presence."

"You can assure Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe that we will be joining them shortly," Carmine told him.

"Very good Ma'am," Chesterton bowed smartly and retired from the room.

"I suppose we should go," said Edward.

"She can wait a few more minutes," replied Carmine, "We must show her who is royalty and who is the social climber," Lady Carmine Augustus assured Edward.

"And we do that by sitting idly here?" said Edward.

"We do it by being fashionably late, and if it means sitting here to accomplish that, then sit here we must."

Edward found the waiting rather dull and began pacing the room. He opened a door at random and found himself peering into a sizeable wardrobe that contained precisely nothing and which smelt slightly musty.

"Will you settle down and be calm," Carmine insisted, "take this time to compose yourself, you are supposed to be a Blood Prince of the Duchy of Swzaskol."

"Blood Princes of Swzaskol are an impatient and active breed," Edward replied poking at a hatstand with the point of his ceremonial sword.

"Very well, let us be on our way before you massacre an innocent hat with your sword."

As they entered the reception room it was clear they had made Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe wait long enough for she was now in a state of high tension and considerable fluster. The relief on her face at their appearance was highly apparent.

"Your highnesses," she simpered, "I'm honoured you choose to grace our modest function. If I may be permitted to introduce you to some of our other guests," she led then toward a plump middle aged couple who, from Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe's demeanour, were clearly the next most important people in the room after Edward and Carmine.

"Lord and Lady Forester, may I introduce you to Crown Prince Constantine of Swzaskol. Lord Forester holds an important position in the department of trade." said Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe.

Thus began a seemingly endless round of introductions, until, eventually Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe seemed to have exhausted the possibilities for introductions and with some relief the ringing of a gong announced dinner was served in the Banquet hall.

On  the whole Edward found it rather pleasant, there was a thrill to maintaining the fiction that he and Carmine were foreign royalty. He even went so far as to invent some small manufactured items that the Swzaskolvians might be interested in trading in, and hinted at an improved gun, but this last idea brought rather too intense interest and he quickly dropped it.

Despite the pleasantness of the evening, Edward was tired from travelling and, wherever he turned, there seemed to be an eager Penelope smiling longingly at him. He gratefully retired to his room as soon as he was able. None the less the hour was late and he quickly found himself drifting off into a deep dreamless sleep.
Chapter 16 – The Crystal Palace
The following morning Edward rose late to find Chesterton laying out garments for the day with mid-morning sun streaming into the room.

"Good morning Sir. Captain Legate thinks it is a good opportunity to show you some of the sights of the city today. He's awaiting you in the breakfast room, the steam-car is primed and ready to leave as soon as you are ready," Chesterton said, handing Edward yet another damn embroidered shirt. Edward wondered just where Chesterton was getting them from, he seemed to have an endless supply.

He didn't let such idle thoughts delay him, Edward wasfilled him with excitement at the prospect of seeing London, the seat of the most powerful Empire in the World. The Duchess Catherine Van Der Hoakfen, who clearly loved visiting the city, had filled his head with ideas about the sights he should see. There was one she was particularly keen on, one he was definitely going to see, though not until the evening, the grand Crystal Palace, which his father Victor the Second had had rebuilt, its reputation of splendour and magnificence a legend across the world.

In the breakfast room Rob and Captain Legate were leisurely finishing a meal of England's finest morning victuals, fat sizzling sausages and hansom rashers of bacon with eggs and mushrooms. Hot buttered toast with fresh creamery butter and a selection of jams and marmalades, all washed down with Earl Grey tea. Despite their relaxed manner Edward sensed Rob and the Captain were growing weary of waiting for him, and eager to see the city himself Edward did not take full advantage of the faire which the Blatchington-Smythes had provided.

As he dashed jam onto a piece of toast and accepted a cup of tea from Chesterton he notice that neither the Blatchington-Smythes nor Carmine were present. Of the Blatchington-Smythes he cared little as to their whereabouts, but Carmine's absence troubled him enough to enquire from Captain Legate as to her whereabouts. He was told Carmine had departed sometime earlier saying she'd seen the sights many times and preferred to spend her time finding something appropriate for the evening.

"In other words, she's gone shopping," Rob said grinning.

"I think it likely we would find her in the vicinity of Knightsbridge or Chelsea at some outfitters or dressmakers Sir," said Chesterton. "We could find her if you wish?"

"I'm sure she knows what she wants and what she's doing," replied Edward. "Let us get along ourselves or we will have seen nothing by the end of the day."

At that Rob and the Captain jumped to their feet and the four of them trooped out into the hallway. As if by magic the Blatchington-Smythes appeared. The two women all smiles and curtsied greetings, while Sir Gerald stood behind them looking slightly confused.

"I thought, as you are from out of town your Highness, that you might care to avail yourself of my daughter's knowledge of our fair city," Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe addressed Edward. "She knows well many of the more important monuments, museums and so forth," she insisted.

Edward looked to the others for a way out, but none was forthcoming and so they found themselves accompanied by the fair Penelope. It was fortunate that there was room for only one more in the steam-car or they might have also had the pleasure of Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe's company as well.

The elegant steam-car stood happily chugging in the middle of the quiet mews. Edward helped Penelope mount the vehicle before climbing in himself. Rob and the Captain followed and Chesterton donned goggles and hat and clambered onto the drivers seat. With a sweet tooting of the whistle Chesterton engaged the gears and the shiny brass and glossy black car began to chug up the road.

Penelope's presence was not the trial Edward had feared. Yes she was extraordinarily attentive to his needs, which was something Edward was still unused to, but she was also knowledgeable about the buildings they past and entertaining in her telling of their histories. As the day wore on Edward found himself rather enjoying her company and began to wonder if Carmine hadn't badly misjudged the younger Blatchington-Smythe.

Around noon they stopped for a light lunch in a hotel on the strand and later took a tour of the British Museum after which Captain Legate suggested they returned to Fairweather House to prepare for the evening.

"How exciting," said Penelope. "To be invited to the Crystal Palace, it is a most wondrous building by all accounts and I'm sure the Emperor's party will be utterly gorgeous and exquisitely sumptuous. I do hope you will find some trade links with our Country, if nothing else, to give you an excuse to visit with us again," she smiled winsomely at Edward.

Edward mounted the stairs to his room, his mind racing with thoughts about the evening before him, what was the Duke's purpose in inviting him to the Palace party? would he meet his uncle, the Emperor? As he strode along the corridor deep in thought a sudden shriek and the crash of porcelain jolted him from his revere.

An auburn haired blue eyed young woman in the black and white livery of Fairweather house staff was standing in front of Edward, her hands held over her mouth, a tray of broken porcelain at her feet. For a long moment she stood staring at him, her blue eyes wide with shock.

Edward was about to say something when the girl dropped her hands from her face and in that instant Edward recognised her.

"Anna?" he asked.

"Edward? Is that really you?" the girl asked. It was Anna Blacksteel from his old Orphanage.

"Anna," he cried and embraced her, then realising he risked exposing his identity as a Prince of  Swzaskol he quickly pulled her into his room.

"Anna, it's so good to see you," said Edward. "What are you doing here?"

"Edward, I feared you were dead," she cried and embraced him again.

"My dear dear Anna, it's so good to see you, but what are you doing at Fairweather House?" Edward asked again.

"I could ask you the same thing, but I will tell first," she smiled at him, the joy of reconciliation clear in her eyes. "I'm in the employ of the Blatchington-Smythes. After you left the Orphanage that night Sniderby became very interested in you, he kept asking me questions about you. Then one day about a week after you left, a Lady came in a black airship and she brought me here to London to ask more questions about you, 'did I know where you were going?' The things you had said to me, but I didn't know anything. I was detained by the Department of Internal Affairs for several weeks which was horrid. After that I was brought into the employ of the Blatchington-Smythes and I've been here ever since."

"Oh but the shock you gave me when I saw you in the corridor, and in those fancy clothes. At first I thought it was just a nasty trick my mind was playing on me, seeing your face on the Prince of  Swzaskol, but then that expression on your face which I know so well, that's when I dropped the tray. Oh the tray!" she wailed. "Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe will be very displeased with me. She says I'm a clumsy girl, though I work hard for her and try to do everything right, it's not easy, I'm not used to  this kind of work, it's nothing like Blacksteel mill."

"Don't worry about the tray," Edward assured her. Taking her delicate hands in his he said, "I'll tell Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe it was my fault." He paused a moment in thought. "Look I have to go. As you know I'm not the Prince of Swzaskol and but can't risk being exposed. So much has happened since I saw you and I have so much to tell you, but I don't have time right now, I have an important meeting this evening, when it's over I'll come back and get you, I promise," Edward looked into her eyes. "You just have to be patient a little longer. Now please leave quickly before were caught, and please, not a word to anyone," he begged her.

With a last tearful glance back at him Anna slipped quietly from the room leaving Edward to prepare for the night ahead.

As the afternoon light began to turn to dusk a modest yet fancy Hungarian carriage arrived at the mews and a few minutes later Edward and Carmine came out of Fairweather house. Edward was dressed in the traditional Swzaskol outfit topped off by a short cloak. Carmine wore a long flattering dress in the latest London fashion with flowing sleeves and delicate lace work at the cuffs, a tight bodice held her slim waist and emphasised her bosom, over which she wore a long dark cloak with a large loose hood.

"You look fantastic," Edward told her when he saw her come out of the house.

"Why thank you your highness," she smiled at him as he offered her a hand into the carriage.

Carmine climbed into the black and gold painted vehicle, Rob and Captain Legate dressed in footmen's uniforms joined them. Edward suppressed a smile at the sight of them in the tight fitting long green jackets and knee length boots. And while he thought them a pair he also noticed the sharp swords hung at their belts and the decorative, though equally deadly pistols each carried on his hip. In a moment they had jumped up on the footman's plate at the back of  the carriage and Chesterton in top hat and long black coachman's cloak took up the reigns of the four black horses. With a snap of the leathers and a cry of "walk on" from Chesterton, the carriage rolled out of mews which echoed the deft clip clop of the horses.

The streets of London were, if anything, even more wondrous by night than by day. Many of the buildings were lit by gas or torch light emphasising parts of their frontages which in daylight appeared plain but by lamplight were mysterious and magical. They rode down the Strand and across the mighty Thames on a bridge with large braziers positioned every twenty feet set in stone bays built into the sides of the bridge. As their journey continued their carriage was joined by others moving in the same direction and soon a faerie glow was be seen on the horizon lighting up the sky as they approached the Crystal Palace itself. As they drew closer the lights grew brighter and the top of the Palace became visible over the trees an ethereal structure of steel and coloured glass like a deep sea jelly fish glowing in the inky depths it sparkled and flickered with coloured light a stupendous shining jewel set in a large spacious park.

Marking out the path to the Palace a long corridor of torches burnt on tall stakes, flickering and dancing in the gentle evening breeze. The Swzaskol carriage joined a line of elegant carriages which moved at a steady pace towards the palace entrance and the sweeping driveway before it. Edward watched as each carriage came to the large oval flowerbed which formed a point around which the carriages turned, but instead of flowers in the oval there were large crystals of many colours and shapes. Discrete gas lights played across the many faceted display throwing sparkles of light which flickered across the highly polished carriages and lit the faces of the Emperor's guests as they dismounted from their vehicles.

Edward and Carmine took their turn, a footman in Emperor's livery opened the door for them and offered Carmine a hand down. Edward watched as their carriage disappeared off around the display of crystals. Carmine said, "Don't worry, they will be close by if we need them."

"I wasn't worrying," Edward replied, offering Carmine his arm. They walked over the gravel  towards the palace. Loose stones gave way to silver coloured, highly polished, marble flooring in which they saw their own reflections. Ahead of them stood a massive glass entrance way like a portal into another world, one of bright colours, flickering lights and distorted reflections. Inside was both beauty and madness together. Edward was never entirely sure if a surface was real or a reflection. A corridor of people became a looking glass mirage, an already large hall appeared twice its actual size, people seemed to be walking on the ceilings as well as the floors and in places the reflections ran infinitely onward the next smaller, yet just as perfect as the last.

It was clear people would have found all this too bewildering and strange on its own, but the designers had created clever clues which helped orientate the visitor, they included simple written signs, the words of which of course would appear backwards in their reflections. A corridor might be hung with paintings which seemed to float in the air, but whose very presence told of a wall supporting them. Chairs and potted plants on delicately carved tables not only added to the luxury and magnificence but also subtly indicated doorways, glass walls and mirrored surfaces so though the sight was potentially confusing the experience was delightful and charming.

As Edward and Carmine walked down the main corridor a troupe of ballerinas dressed in flowing silks, danced behind a glass wall, on a surface so reflective it appeared as if they balanced on the feet of identical upside down dancers. At the end of the corridor they came to the main ballroom a vast space with the night stars for a ceiling, where yard upon yard of gold and red silken drapes swooped down from the ceiling, curving and swishing to the floor. As they entered the room a functionary in Imperial red and black livery held out a gloved hand. Edward was about to shake it when Carmine flicked a small gold edged card from between the fingers of her blue velvet glove and gave it to the functionary who took a moment to read it before announcing in a loud voice to the room, "Prince Constantine Prevaclouz and Princess Claudine DeLaqouir of the Grand Duchy of Swzaskol."

There was polite murmur from the assembled dignitaries and the odd glance from those nearest the entrance and those who just had to know who everyone was, even if they were as obscure as Swzaskolians. Edward and Carmine proceeded into the crowd keeping a discreet eye out for the Duke of Northumberland, though Edward wondered how they would ever find him in such a crowd. He and Carmine took an unobtrusive position by the wall where they thought they might best survey the room for the Duke without drawing undue attention to themselves.

After they had stood for a while, Edward and Carmine found themselves approached by tall pale aristocrat in a long black jacket. He wore his dark hair long and to the shoulder, and while his face was rather drawn and had a deep scar running from his eyebrow to his cheekbone there was a certain handsomeness to him, and while he presented a thin pale hand to Carmine his grip was surprisingly firm. He held himself with a certain air of self-assurance and Edward couldn't help thinking that behind the dark eyes the man was laughing at him.

"Your highness," he greeted Carmine lifting her hand to his thin lips and pressing a cold kiss on the soft velvet of her glove. To Edward he proffered nothing more than a nod of recognition that he was stood beside Carmine.

"May I introduce myself? I am Lord Trafford Darkmere, Count of Dankmoor, Viceroy of Poojat, and I believe you are Princess Claudine of Swzaskol. May I also complement you on your outstanding beauty?" he said in deep, gravely, voice and managed a tight smile as he peered into Carmine's eyes.

Carmine gave a small curtsy in return and said, "You flatter me my Lord."

Edward decided he didn't really like the fellow, not his manner nor his attitude.

"I would be in your debt if you would grant me the pleasure of a dance," the Count persisted.

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure," Carmine said to Edward's surprise. "But I fear I am otherwise committed at this moment, and must, for now, await such a pleasure till a more opportune time."

A dark cloud of annoyance passed across Darkmere's face and with a sneering smile he bowed to Carmine and turned on his heels disappearing back into the crowd as quickly as he had first come.

A moment later Edward and Carmine were approached again, this time by a familiar figure, the Duke.

"There you are my boy, I've been looking all over for you," said the Duke, then a frown flickered across his brow. "Was that Count Dankmoor I saw talking to you?" he asked.

"It was, and a most unpleasant man," said Edward.

"Indeed, his meeting you is less than desirable, particularly his meeting Carmine," said the Duke.

"What can you mean my dear Duke?" asked Carmine.

"I mean that Darkmere is, like you, an agent of the Emperor, and there is a risk he may have recognised you," said the Duke.

"Well I've never met him before," Carmine assured them, "I've no doubt I would remember if I had."

"That is as well as it is good, for our sakes let us hope you have never been pointed out to him," replied the Duke. "Now we must hurry for we have little time, the Emperor is about to address the hall and this is our opportunity, quickly, follow me," instructed the Duke turning and moving off into the crowd as he spoke.

They followed the Duke through the colourful crowd of excited aristocrats, ambassadors and assorted dignitaries making their way towards the back of the hall. They reached the glass wall at a point well off to one side where the foliage of plants was unusually dense and the number of wall hangings rather more than usual. The duke stepped behind a particularly tall and thick fern and pressed on part of the wall. A small click and a mirrored part slid back to reveal a narrow passage. Swiftly the Duke ushered Edward and Carmine in to the passage and the door slid closed behind them.

"This is one of the Palace's access passages," explained the Duke as they walked along in single file. "They are mainly used by staff so they can move around unobtrusively, but they are also used by members of the Royal family from time to time." As he spoke they came to a narrow spiral staircase leading to the upper floors of the Palace.

"The Crystal Palace is never occupied," explained the Duke, "It is used purely for functions and state occasions, so there are no bedrooms, however there are staterooms set aside for the Emperor and the Royal family to use on occasions like this." By the time Duke had finished telling them this they had arrived a peculiar section of the passageway, a rectangle of wall  framed in a steel mechanism.

The Duke turned to Edward and his voice took on a most serious tone. "Your mother, the queen, knows of your return and is naturally keen to see you again. You do not have long though, she is due to join the Emperor at the grand banquet as soon as he has finished delivering his address. Lady Carmine and I will await you here in the passage. Good luck boy." With that the Duke activated a lever in the wall and it swung open.

Edward stepped into a large room with shining floors and glassy pillars of crystal. At one end of the room a figure sat alone at a dressing table. As the secret panel clicked shut behind him the figure turned her head and looked over.

"Come here," she commanded in a soft gental voice.

Edward crossed the room towards the woman. She was late middle aged with long blond hair. She wore a simple yet elegant dress but it was was her face which astonished Edward, the most beautiful and the most sad face he had ever see. As he approached, the Queen stood and turned.

"Let me look at you boy," she said. She stood silent and still, her only movement the flickering of her eyes as she inspected every aspect of his face. After a while she began quietly singing a soft refrain, the same eight bars, over and over. As Edward listened to the tune something came into his mind, a long forgotten distant memory. Suddenly he realised knew the song, the tune at least. When the Queen came to the end of the refrain again Edward found himself humming the next part of the tune. The Queen's eyes widened with astonishment, and then with a tearful smile she stepped up to him and took his shoulders in her perfect hands.

"Edward?" she whispered, barely audibly. "My Edward, can it really be you?" she asked, looking questioningly into his eyes. "For so long I've thought you gone. When Guy told me, I wanted to believe, but I couldn't believe, I couldn't risk finding you then loosing you again. Is it really you my son?"

Edward was unsure how to answer this. He had hoped she would have the answer. Of course over the months he had come to accept the Duke's word on the matter, the proof of Lord Philip's poem.

"Do you not know me?" he asked eventually. "Can you not tell your own son my Queen? For if you do not know me, then there is no-one, not even myself, who knows who I am."

"You know the tune, the nursery rhyme I sang you as a babe to rock you to sleep. You have your father's eyes and jaw, I see my beloved Richard in your manner and the way you hold yourself, but I have wanted this moment so much, for so long, I no not if I can trust myself."

A sharp noise interrupted their tearful conversation and her manner changed in an instant.

"Someone approaches, you must leave, they must not find you here," she insisted leading him over to the mirrored panel by which he had entered her chambers. "Go quickly my son, go now for we shall meet again and when we do I hope I shall know you for my son." With that she pressed upon the panel and a dark oblong opened up in the silver wall.

As the panel slid silently closed Edward heard voices coming in the Queen's chamber. Carmine and the Duke were waiting for him, and while their faces spoke of their eagerness to know how his meeting had proceeded, the Duke spoke of the more pressing matter.

"Quickly now, you and Carmine must leave the palace, you must not be found here," he warned. "Go quickly."

Carmine led Edward along the passage and down stairs. They all but ran, taking first this turn then that and always descending until they came to a section of passageway with the familiar mechanism and Carmine opened another panel.

They appeared to be in small reception room, with no-one else about. Carmine opened the door and peeked out into the corridor. "All clear," she said, hurrying out. Edward swiftly followed her and a moment later they were making their way through a back kitchen and out through a rear entrance into the dark night.

Carmine led him along a small path which ran alongside the glittering Palace wall and a moment latter they came to a stable area. The carriage he had arrived in awaited ready and harnessed, Captain Legate sat at the driver's seat and Rob ready with the doors. The carriage was already rolling as Edward and Carmine jumped in, Rob catching the rear footplate as Captain Legate urged the horses to speed.

They shot down the curving drive which led towards the front of the Crystal Palace itself but turned off down a dark and unlit road before reaching the grand front. Edward heard Rob shout something indistinct to the captain, whatever it was, it caused the Captain to urge the horses on even faster. Soon they reached the edge of the park and rolled onto the streets of London heading for the river. As they turned the corner Edward though he saw a second carriage coming out of the park after them.

A rustling behind Edward caused him to turn his attention back to the carriage, Carmine appeared to be undressing. Her elegant outfit crumpled to the carriage floor beneath which she wore a tight fitting, black leather, suit. Seeing him looking she gave him a wry smile. "I fight better in trousers," she said.

"Will there be fighting?" asked Edward.

"Who know? but it looks like the Emperors' Agents are in pursuit. Did you see the carriage following us?"

Edward nodded.

"They will be wanting to ask us questions if they catch us," she told him.

Their carriage continued to rattle on through the night empty streets ever more toward the river, the sound of horses hooves and the clatter of wheels echoing off the walls of the houses and buildings. Their perusers seemed to be catching up as Edward heard a shot being fired. A moment latter Rob's head poked through the footman's hatch.

"Get ready to jump when we slow down for the corner," he told them, "The Captain will try to draw our pursuers off."

As the carriage slowed to take the turn Carmine flipped the door open and she and Edward leapt to the ground closely followed by Rob. Quickly the three of them took cover behind some crates, and not a moment too soon for a black carriage bearing the Imperial crest thundered passed their hiding place. Four black horses foaming at the mouth frantically drew the carriage as the black clad driver urged them on, so eagerly he almost rolled the carriage over, right on top of the place where the three fugitives were hidden. Skidding on the cobbled road the carriage rocked violently back and fourth. As it accelerated away a second black clad figure could be seen leaning from the window and levelling a pistol at the vehicle in front. A shot rang out in the darkness.

"This way," Rob called hoarsely from the gloom and began leading them through the shadows towards the dockside. Soon they came to open space and cooler air indicating they had reached the river. A low mist formed on the waters of the Themes shrouding everything in a mysterious grey cloak. Edward could barely see two steps in front of him. As they walked their footsteps rang dull and hollow on the wooden boarding that formed the dockside and loading piers. At regular intervals they passed the dim yellow glow of the gas-lamps which appeared to float magically above them in the clammy air.

Cold air condensed into heavy droplets on Edwards' cloak and hair. Suddenly Rob called a halt to their progress. The river was silent, somewhere the irregular tink tink of a boats' hull tapped on a dockside. The gentle slurp slurp of the rivers wavelets was disturbed by a deeper, felt rather than heard rumble which quickly turned into a thrashing of water growing in intensity and suddenly a large dark shape emerged menacingly from the dark murky waters.
Chapter 17 – A strange servant
The thing in the river grew before their eyes, water cascading down its shiny black sides, when it let out a great squeal of metal on metal followed by an ominous clang and a voice called out through the mist.

"Ahoy there."

"It's Prince Constantine and the Swzaskolians," Rob shouted back.

"Right you are sir," the voice replied and this was immediately followed by more metallic clanking and grinding.

"This way," Rob said, beckoning Carmine and Edward through the mist. He led them up a short metal gangway and through a low curved hatch which gave onto a grilled walkway. Behind them a sailor closed the hatch and span the wheel to secure the door. They descended into the bowels of the machine on stairs so steep they were almost a ladder.

A man wearing a peaked cap and big black beard greeted them at the bottom of the metal stairway. His blue jacked bore gold bands round the cuffs which marked him as the captain of the vessel.

"Your Highness, Your Ladyship, Mr. Badger, welcome aboard the submersible vessel the Moray. I am Captain Ignatius Barracuda," said the Captain in a deep baritone. "You'll have to excuse the cramped conditions, I'm afraid this is a rather cosy ship, but I'm sure my crew will make you comfortable during your trip. If you'll follow me I'll show you to your quarters."

Captain Barracuda led them along a narrow corridor which ran the entire length of the Moray and, coming to a hatchway, showed them into a small cabin. A low throb took the ship and the sound of gushing water indicated they were submerging beneath the waters of the Thames.

"It's a good job Isambard anticipated the need for a swift escape route," said Rob, "and had Captain Barracuda and the Moray stand ready at the docks..."

He was interrupted as a sailor brought in a tray with a large jug of hot chocolate and a small bottle of rum on it, both of which he placed on the table.

"Glad to be of service to you," the Captain said. "Now we are about to navigate the Thames, so you'll excuse me, I'm needed on the bridge."

"Thank you Captain," said Edward.

"Tell us everything about your meeting with the Queen," said Carmine, eager to hear how it had gone. They each took a mug of steaming chocolate to which Rob added a large drop of the rum.

"She is beautiful," said Edward looking as Carmine, "and sad. It was strange. I'm not sure how I feel about it yet. I think she recognised me, but I'm not really sure," he said thoughtfully.

Further discussion of the matter was interrupted as a sailor poked his head around the hatchway.

"Your Highness, we are getting a signal for you from Professor Van Klees, in the ABAY room," he told Edward.

Edward followed the swarthy submariner down the narrow metal passageway to the cramped ABAY cabin where there was barely enough room for Edward and the operator in such a confined space.

"This message has just arrived," said the operator, handing Edward a familiar strip of paper, an ABAY printout. It read, "Valiant now off English South Coast. Stop. Awaiting orders."

"We can send a message back?" asked Edward, the operator nodded his reply.

Edward drafted a brief note about the poem which he shared with Carmine, asking Isambard what he thought about it. The operator relayed the messaged into the ABAY which whirred and clicked for a few moments before falling still again. Minutes past, then the machine burst into action once again and as the little leavers clicked and clacked a strip of printed paper began snaking out of the slot, and was neatly sliced off as soon as the device finished its work. Picking the printout from the brass collection tray the operator handed it to Edward.

"Advise proceed to Apethorpe Manor. Stop. Will analyse poem. Stop. Valiant at your disposal. Stop." As Edward read this the ABAY sprang into action once more and a second strip of paper slipped out of the slot and fell into the tray.

"Coordinates for our rendezvous with the Valiant Sir," the operator told Edward as he entered them into the Moray's navigational system.

Edward returned to the cabin with the message. "So what do you think?" he asked Carmine and Rob.

"I think he's right," said Carmine. "My father seems to have left us message in the poem and whatever it means, we are most likely to find a clue at home."

"At Apethorpe Manor?" asked Edward.

"Yes, Apethorpe, my ancestral home. Indeed with my father death, it now belongs to me.  I suppose I am the Lady of the Manor," she replied a little sadly.

"We are all invited to your place then?" asked Rob cheerfully, hoping to lift the mood a little.

"Yes, you are both welcome at my ancestral home in Southern Ireland," Carmine assured them. "Indeed I cordially invite you both to join me there. It will be good to see the old place again," she added wistfully.

Several hours latter, under cover of the last hour of darkness before dawn, the Moray's conning tower broke the cold choppy waters of the English channel and the submersible rose to the surface. A light was made to guide the Valiant and a little latter, it responded with a light of its own, shortly followed by a cable length falling to the Moray's deck. At the end of the cable was a simple hook. Edward, Carmine and Rob were already wearing winching harnesses in preparation for their transfer to the Valiant.

Edward went first. As the hook sung over the Moray, Captain Barracuda himself deftly caught the cable and in a single swift motion hooked Edward's harness and he was lifted clear of the conning tower and winched upward. At the top of the winching, as he drew level with the Valiant's rail, the crew of the Valiant swung the winch arm in towards the ship and unhooked Edward. The cable was released. Edward watched as the manoeuvre was repeated twice again.

To Rob's misfortune as he was lifted from the Moray a swell in the waves coincided with a drop in air pressure above and he was unceremoniously dunked, briefly, into the cold seas, so he arrived on the Valiant dripping wet, though otherwise unharmed. Both Edward and Carmine were unable to prevent themselves seeing the funny side of this, and Rob, as was his nature, took it all in good humour.

As the flight to Ireland would take then several hours there was plenty of time for him to dry off and get changed, and all three took the opportunity to get some rest. So it was around mid-day when Edward was roused from his nap by a crewman and informed that the Valiant would shortly be coming over Apethorpe Manor.

The Valiant docked to a mooring tower set in the Manor's splendid grounds and while Edward and the others approached the manor on foot, the crew of the Valiant took the opportunity to effect minor repairs and necessary maintenances of the airship.

Edward and Rob followed Carmine across long lawns of lush green grass which ran to the manor itself. An impressive three story building of pale brown stone. Four plain columns flanked the front of the building, standing in pairs either side of the main entrance. They climbed the wide stone steps which led to front doors made from rich local wood.

To the right of the door, hanging down from a shallow portico ceiling, was an iron rod with a looped handle. Carmine grasped the rod and pulled down on it several times. Somewhere behind the doors they heard a distant bell ring in response to Carmine's actions.

They waited in the warm afternoon sun as birds chirped from the nearby hedges and a gentle breeze played with the heads of the flowers in the well tended flower beds.

"Someone must be here," said Carmine and rang the bell again. "My father's old staff will have been retained by the estate manager until given new instructions and I've not instructed the family lawyer since my father's death."

"Who would be on the staff?" asked Edward.

"I don't know, it's been a few years since I was here last. I know he didn't have many people working here, but he must have kept a caretaker or something, how else are the gardens tended?" said Carmine.

Rob had wondered away from the doorsteps and climbing into a nearby flower bed began  peering through the dark windows, cupping his hands around his eyes to get a better look. "It looks deserted, everything is covered in sheets and dust in this room," he informed the others.

"Don't you have a key to your own home?" asked Edward.

"I've never needed one," replied Carmine, "till now," she added. "I should have gone to the manager's office in Limerick to get one, which is where I guess we will have to go now."

They were about to return to the airship when Rob suddenly called out, "Hold up a minute, I think I see some movement." Again they waited in the quiet country air and presently there came an indistinct noise from behind the door, followed by the more recognisable sound of a key being turned in a well oiled lock. The door creaked open to reveal a darkened hall.

After the bright sunlight outside the darkness inside blinded them all as their eyes adjusted to the poor light within. Edward looked around for the person who had opened the door. As his eyes grew accustomed to the gloom he was able to make out a figure standing almost behind the door.

"Hey, you fellow, who are you?" he called to the figure who's response was to silently close the door behind them.

"Lets get some curtains drawn back in here shall we?" said Carmine in a cheery business like tone and taking here own advice leapt up the main staircase and found the rope which opened the curtains. Bright sunlight flooded into the hall and dust motes danced in the sun beams.

Turning to look at the figure by the door Edward saw a person of average height wearing a long brown robe, their face hidden in the shadows of a large hood.

"Who are you?" asked Edward.

The figure was silent and Rob was about to repeat the question when it made a strange noise, a low grinding growl which turned in to the words, "Ra Chet."

"Pardon?" said Edward.

"Ra Chet, Sir," said the figure in a dry rasping voice.

"Ra Chet?" cried Carmine, coming down the stairs again. "I don't recall anyone called Ra Chet in my father's employ. How long have you been in his service."

Again a long pause before Ra Chet replied, "I have served Lord Apethorpe for five years two months eight days and twenty three minutes Ma'am."

"He's an incredibly precise fellow," observed Rob.

All this time Edward had been trying to get a look at Ra Chet's face which remained resolutely hidden beneath his hood, but what Edward was able to make out of the shadowed visage looked horribly scared. A thin, possibly toothless mouth above a pockmarked chin with a vivid scar running up the side.

"And what exactly do you do for my father?" Carmine asked.

"I serve him," Ra Chet answered simply.

"In what capacity do you serve him?" she continued to press the man.

"In whatever way he commands, if it lies with in my capabilities," replied the strange man.

"I see," remarked Carmine giving him a quizzical look but choosing to pursue the matter no further for the moment.

"We should begin our investigation," said Edward. "Perhaps your father's study is a good place to begin?"

"This way," said Carmine leading them through a doorway which opened into a main corridor. They left the strange servant standing in the hall.

At the far end of the corridor Carmine opened a door and they all entered a sizeable room. She strode across the rich carpet and around the dark shadows of the furniture to draw back the curtains. As the afternoon light flooded in Edward saw they were in an octagonal room, panelled in dark wood, bookshelves lined the walls with tall windows set between. A large fireplace dominated the wall opposite the door, a dark stone mantelpiece with some ornaments on it, and hung above, a modest looking glass in a highly ornate frame. In the centre sat a huge oak table while at the side, stood a large globe of the world held in a carved wooden stand.

"What do you think we are looking for?" asked Rob looking at all the books.

"I don't know," confessed Edward.

"I'll search his desk to see if there is anything," said Carmine. She went and sat in the large leather chair which stood behind the desk. Edward and Rob began wondering around the room like two confused visitors in a museum of curiosities. Edward really had no idea what he was looking for, some clue, some hint, Lord Philip had been most mysterious.

The regular placement of the bookshelves and the windows left little opportunity in the way of sizeable hiding places. The room, built on the end of the east wing and joined the main building only at one wall, left no place for a secret room or passageway behind the shelves. Starting methodically at the shelf to the right of the door Edward inspected their contents. There where many books on all manner of subjects. The seventh and ninth shelves on each wall were, however, given over to collections of objects, which to Edward, looked on the whole to be ornamental.

An African mask stared down with empty almond eyes, an ornamental dagger glinted on a Chinese lacquer stand, various boxes both carved and plane, wooden, metal and even stone littered the shelves. On another shelf sat what looked like a small human skull while either side of this gruesome exhibit stood strange stones, one with some ancient curling spiral insect like being long turned to stone, another with a cluster of quartz like crystals coming from it, reminding Edward of the Palace he has so recently visited.

Each shelf was ornately carved with many symbols along its edge and thin wooden pillars, which formed the frontispiece of each side, were carved with a twisting vine motif which climbed to the ceiling and terminated in a cluster of berries and leaves. Having completed a first circuit of the room Edward studied the ceiling and the floor. An ornate chandelier hung from the centre of a slightly domed octagon. The floor, where it was not covered by an ornate oriental carpet, was bare grey stone laid in sizeable blocks, each a trapezoid, creating an effect whereby, the stones ran round and round in ever decreasing circles to a single octagonal stone in the centre.

"Any thing in his desk?" asked Edward, crossing to where Carmine sat examining a large pile of letters and papers.

"Nothing so far, bills and general household papers which I suppose I should attend to sometime, but nothing of interest to us, not even a diary or personal note book. As she said this an envelope slipped from the bunch of papers in her hand.

"What's that?" asked Edward picking the envelope up. "It's got your name on it Carmine," he gave it to her.

Slitting it open with a paper knife she sat back and took a moment to read with a dark look of concern written across her face.

"It's from my father, he urges me to seek you out and bring you here. He says it's very important I do this."

She began reading the letter aloud, "My Dearest Cami, I fear my time now is growing short, the Guardians grow closer and closer to finding me with each day that passes, and I must leave the Manor today on a matter of great urgency. It has become my belief in recent weeks that the Guardians may find me before I complete my mission, and therefore, with great reluctance, it falls to you to finish this unpleasant business which I find myself involved in. I do not have time here to explain it all to you, but I trust you to do the right thing."

"I ask you to seek out a young man, who I dare not name here in this letter. I ask you to think back to when you were ten years old and you and I took a trip around England in the big airship, you remember, the one with the red room which you liked so much. That was the trip where you fell on the steps at York Minster and cut you knee and a nice lady bandaged it with a blue ribbon from her hair."

"I hope you remember this trip, for I suspect the future of the Empire may now rest on your shoulders, and on your memories. During the trip we visited several mills and at one, which I dare not mention, I introduced you to a young boy about your age. Do you remember him, I hope so, do your remember where? I made your read the name of the mill from the iron work sign over the gate. Do you remember the boy? I made you memorise his name, and we made a song about it."

"It is with great regret that I must commit even this to paper as it puts you at great risk. Please believe me my Darling daughter that I do this only because I have no other option open to me. When you have found and read this letter destroy it. Tell no one. Find the boy and bring him here, he is our only hope."

"I love you dearly and always will, your ever loving Father Lord Philip Hanson-Augustus Baronet of Apethorpe."

She folded the letter up and slipped it back into the envelope before placing in her pocket.

"I do remember the trip," Carmine said wistfully. "I don't know why I didn't see it before, I knew there was something about the name Edward Blacksteel that seemed familiar when the department dispatched me to Blacksteel Orphanage, but it wasn't till now I remembered."

"I remember you," said Edward. "I remember Lord Philip coming to the orphanage one year with a raven haired girl, about my age. He was very keen to introduce me to you, for me to meet his daughter. Of course until now I didn't realise, I never made the connection."

They looked at each other for a moment a shared memory and a shared sadness.

"Well you have succeeded in fulfilling your father's wish," Edward broke the silence between them resting a sympathetic hand on her shoulder. "Does he say anything else? Why you should bring me here? What we are supposed to find?"

"No, nothing, just that I should bring you here, no clues, nothing else." replied Carmine.

"I guess we must keep looking then," said Edward scratching his head. He returned to the first bookshelf determined to search it even more thoroughly. Crouching down he began pulling books from the lower shelves, inspecting their titles, shaking them and looking behind. After twenty or so books all he had for his troubles were dusty sleeves and a dusty throat. He reached up and grasped a shelf to help pull himself back upright and he stood for a moment leaning on the shelf. As he did so he noticed the carved symbols again. No two were the same, a boar's head, a tree, a snake, a sword, a bell, a star, twelve in all. He looked at the next shelf, the symbols were the same twelve, though in a different order.

"Hey Carmine," he called out. "Do you think this means anything?" he showed her the symbols on the shelves.

"I don't know, I suppose they might," she replied looking at them.

Edward fingered the boar's head thoughtfully and in doing so felt it move. In astonishment he pressed it and the symbol receded into to the shelf a little way. When he released it it slid back to its usual position.

"That's interesting," said Edward. "You know the last two stanzas in each part of our poem ends with  a symbol, a rose, a heart, a star and a sword," he began looking along all the shelves.

"Yes, look, there is one of each on each bookcase, four in all."

"And the last line of each stanza also has a point of the compass, I bet each shelf is at a point of the compass," Carmine said. "Now as I recall the manor is built north facing..."

As she was musing this Edward remembered the watch Van Klees had given him, the one with the compass in it. Pulling the watch from his pocket he flipped it over and opened the back cover. The small needle, stamped with an arrow at one end, held steady.

"This is the northern shelf," he said.

"So the rose then," said Carmine, who finding the symbol depressed it. When she lifted her finger, the symbol slipped back into place as if it had never moved.

"Nothing happened," said Rob.

"No," agreed Carmine.

"It certainly is a puzzle," added Edward throwing himself into the leather chair, but a moment later he leapt up again, "perhaps we need to press all the symbols at the same time."

"But there are only three of us," Rob pointed out, "and four buttons."

"Perhaps your father's strange servant will help?" said Edward to Carmine, "I'll go and ask him."

In the entrance hall Ra Chet stood exactly where they had left him almost an hour earlier. Edward approached the silent, scared, figure who gave no sign of recognising Edwards' presence.

"Ahem, Ra Chet?" Edward said, as he drew close to the man, who after a moment croaked what Edward thought might have been the word Sir. Taking this as at least a sign he was being heard Edward continued, "Would you come with me to Lord Philip's study, we are in need of your assistance."

"Assistance? Certainly Sir," Ra Chet growled and again after a momentary pause began to follow Edward. As they walked towards the study Edward couldn't help but notice that the fellow had a peculiarity of gait, an unusual stiffness which gave the impression that he somehow managed to limp with both legs.

Back in Lord Philip's study Carmine and Rob had identified the symbols on each of the  shelves.

"What do we do now do you think?" asked Carmine.

"I guess we each take a shelf and press our buttons all at the same time," suggested Edward.

He gave Ra Chet the star on the eastern shelf while taking the sword on the western shelf for himself. The other two took up their respective places north and south and they all pressed together.
Chapter 18 – Secret room
Nothing happened for a moment. Edward glanced at Carmine and a look of disappointment was crossing his face, when suddenly, a low grinding noise came from the stones at his feet causing him to jump back in astonishment. For an instant Edward thought it might be Lord Philip's strange servant making the noise, but it quickly became clear, this was not the case. A semi-circle of stones began to sinking smoothly into the floor, each stone forming a step, until a stairway spiralled away down into the darkness below them.

"A secret stairway," said Edward excitedly.

"I never knew this was here," said Carmine with some surprise, "Daddy never told me about anything like this."

"Shall we investigate?" invited Rob, impatient to see what was below.

"We will need a light," said Edward, and as he spoke Ra Chet, the strange servant walked to the stairs in his unique way and descended into the gloom. A moment later they heard the sound of a door then light flooded up the stairs.

"That seems to have sorted that," said Rob with some satisfaction.

"Lets see where the stairs lead and find out what Ra Chet has discovered," suggested Carmine.

Cautiously they descended the steps which ended some feet below ground in an oak lined chamber. A thick wooden door at the foot of the stairs guarded the room but now stood open. Edward looked around. The chamber contained a desk and some heavy, richly upholstered chairs, a woven red and gold rug lay on the grey flagstones. On the wall behind the desk the flower motif had been carved into an oak panel.  There was no sign of the mysterious servant.

"We have found the secret room," said Rob, "Now what?"

"We must search it," declared Carmine. "Daddy wanted us to find this, why else would he have left us the clues?"

Edward strolled over to the desk. "There's a letter here for us Carmine, and a ring," he said in surprise. She came over and looked at the envelope laying on the desk, with her father's seal in dark red wax welded to the fine linen paper. It was marked 'Edward and Carmine' in Lord Philip's distinctive, flowing handwriting.

Edward picked up the ring. It was in many way similar to his own, though he could tell at a glance the motif was slightly different.

"It looks like he hoped we would make it this far," said Edward picking up the letter, "Who should read it?" he asked.

"He put your name first," observed Carmine.

"Very well," responded Edward and he broke the wax seal with a deft snap and unfolded the thick paper within. For a moment he studied the sheet then handing the ring to Carmine he read out loud.

"My Dearest Children," it began. "If you have found this, then I must rejoice. You have found each other and deciphered the code which opens the secret room, something you could only have done together, but also I fear, it means I am almost certainly dead. I have therefore placed my Ducal signet ring a top this letter. My dearest Cami, you are now Lady of Apethorpe Manor, and I put our ring, the family honour, and my undying trust in you."

"While all that is Apethorpe Manor and it's grounds are Carmine's by birth right, The rooms beneath belong to the League of the White Rose and therefore are in Edwards' charge, as head of the league."

"It is my hope the two of you will continue the work which Edward's father Richard, and I, began so many years ago, long before he succeeded to the throne. "

"In the reign of Edward's Grandfather Victor I, before your father's accession, Edward," the letter continued," we were a small group of friends bound under Richard's leadership. We had great adventures and over the years collected many wonderful and amazing things, but that is another story, one I can not tell here, for I fear time is now growing short."

"During our adventures we came across an ally who alerted us to the existence of a mysterious group know as the Guardians. It was then we discovered the true nature of this highly secretive and powerful sect. The Guardians of the One tree profess a belief that science is an affront to God, as an attempt to understand the work of God through science is a blasphemy, and they work ceaselessly to prevent scientific progress. But be warned, while they would deny others the benefits of science, while they kill and steal to keep the light of knowledge from mankind, they use the very same discoveries against us."

"We believe science can bring great benefits to all mankind, both rich and poor alike, and so we undertook to destroy the Guardians and take back the secrets they have stolen. So we formed the League of the White Rose to oppose them. We began to research in secret and we began to hunt down the Guardians, but we were betrayed by your father's own brother, your uncle, Henry York, he who calls himself by you rightful title, Victor the Third."

"After your father's murder, Henry set about destroying the League, the few of us who are left have been in hiding for many years. Now it is up to you Edward, to take up your father's banner and once again fight against injustice and ignorance. Though much of the original League has been destroyed you will find you still have powerful allies who will make themselves known to you in time."

"Also be warned of your Uncle the Duke of Northumberland, who sides with neither the League nor the Guardians, and who is a rich and powerful man in his own right. Since your father's death the Duke has gained control of much which should be yours by rights, the Airship, the countess of Wetherby, being his greatest prize, but know that she belongs to the League, and is marked with the sign of the white rose."

"Do not confront either of your Uncle's until you are strong. There is a great ally to you in the Duke's household, undoubtedly he has helped you already. Do not expose his position for he knows much that you must learn. He will give you help as you need it and as he is able. You must protect him, for he is one of our first and one of our last."

"Finally, Edward, you must seek out my servant Ra Chet and show him the ring I gave you those many years ago, he will know what to do."

"To my dearest Carmine I can not say  how much I love you nor how deeply I will miss you when I am gone. Yours in Love and fealty Philip Hanson-Augustus Baronet of Apethorpe friend of Richard York."

"Oh," Carmine let slip a gasp as she heard the final words of her father's letter read out. She steadied  herself against the large desk.

"Are you all-right?" asked Edward placing a reassuring hand on her shoulder.

"He knew they were on to him," replied Carmine. "He must have known, or at least suspected, why else would he leave those letters?"

"I agree," replied Edward.

"What do we do now?" asked Rob.

"Well I am guessing there is another room down here," said Edward. "Lord Philip's letter referred to the rooms that belong to the League, plus, the mystery of where Ra Chet has vanished to. He doesn't appear to be in here and he didn't pass us on the stairs, so... I think there must be a secret door to another room." mused Edward.

"A secret door in the secret room. I'm beginning to think this League has something to hide," joked Rob.

"Help me look man," Edward replied tartly, as he began a close examination of the walls. It didn't take him long to find something. In the wall immediately opposite the stairs he spotted a small oval recess, little larger than his thumb. He called the others over as he stuck his finger into the hole. Nothing happened.

"Another of your father's puzzles I think," said Edward stepping back from the otherwise blank wall, it's close fitting dark stones staring silently back at him.

"Wait a minute, what's that?" asked Rob indicating a spot several inches below the hole Edward had found. Looking closely they saw a second oval recess identical in size to one above it.

"Two holes," mused Carmine idly as she twisted her ring round and round on her finger, the sensation of it sitting there, still strange, both comfortable and disconcerting at the same time. She looked up to see the two boys looking at her.

"You know I think she may have solved it," said Edward.

"I think you are right," agreed Rob.

She looked at them blankly then noticed she was twirling her ring.

"The rings?" she asked, "you think it's something to do with the rings?"

Edward nodded, taking his ring off his finger he placed it over the upper hole and pressed it in. The ring fitted perfectly and he thought he felt a slight click as he did so.

"Try yours," he said to Carmine.

She slipped the ring from her finger and pressed it into the lower recess. There was an audible click a ticking noise then the wall began to slide away from them. After a few moments the wall swung inward revealing a further room.

They looked into what appeared to be a large stone chamber with an arched ceiling, lit by a row of strange glowing orbs. A long oval table dominated the room around which were set twelve ornate chairs. They stepped in as Edward took the rings from the holes in the wall door. He handed Carmine's back to her.

"What is this place?" asked Rob.

"I'm thinking this used to be the League's secret base," said Edward approaching the rose wood table with the white rose motif, inlayed in ivory, at it's centre. 

"And it can be once again," announced Carmine, "it should be, it will be."

Edward laughed. "We're not much of a League, just the three of us, on the run from the Emperor himself and expected to chase what? the Guardians? about whom we know almost nothing and all the while the Emperor himself looks to have me killed?"

"Three is a beginning," insisted Carmine. "It was my father's dying wish we reform the League, and I for one intend to do just that." she said hotly.

Edward was a little taken aback at the ferocity of Carmine's feelings on the matter. "It's not that I don't want to, I'm with you Cami, It's just that, well..."

"Your problem is you don't believe in us or yourself, you can bring the League back, you represent so much that others can rally behind."

"Perhaps," Edward said slowly, "With your help, both of you."

"Come on Edward," said Rob, "What have we got to loose? You're heir to a crown your uncle will never let you wear, and anyway, what else are you going to do? Where else can you go?"

"And we are not alone," added Carmine, "My Father's letter mentioned someone else who can help us, one of the old League."

"Which reminds me, your father also mentioned Ra Chet and that I should find him, where has he got to?" asked Edward.

They began looking around. The meeting chamber had four doors each set in the middle of a wall. The door they entered by stood open the other three were shut.

"We should explore the rest of the rooms," said Edward. "He can't have gone far. I'll take the far door, Rob you take the left and Carmine you take the right."

Edward approached the heavy wooden door at the far end of the room. Lifting the heavy iron ring handle, he turned it. It moved smoothly and the door swung open. At first the room beyond was lit only by light from the meeting chamber, but after a few moments lights in the ceiling flickered in to life throwing a weak glow which grew steadily brighter.

The ceiling was lower here and the walls panelled in a warm wood. A deep red carpet with the white rose motif woven in the centre, covered the floor. A table and chair stood to one side, a bookshelf laden with leather clad volumes took up one wall and several doors led off the room. Edward tried each door in turn and each opened. There were apartments complete with beds, washstands and desks. A thin layer of dust lay over everything and it was clear to Edward the rooms had not been used recently.

He was just giving the first apartment a through inspection when he heard a cry coming from the main chamber. Edward raced back to find Rob standing there an excited expression on his face.

"You have to see this," He exclaimed as Carmine joined them.

Edward and Carmine followed Rob into a long room with white tiled walls. A row of benches and storage cupboards ran along the left side. Against the right wall were jars neatly arraigned in a line. Each jar stood about two feet high and a foot in diameter. Many of them appeared to be filled with a clear liquid in which discs of metal and cloth had been stacked. Most had a pair of curled wires training from their lids.

"No idea what all this stuff is," Rob said dismissively waiving his hand at the room as he strode towards a door at the far end. The others hurried after him.

"Look at this," Rob said as they entered behind him.

At first glance the room appeared to contain a Babbage machine with what looked like a human figure embossed on the front. The contraption was made of brass rods and cogs, fine gear chains and leavers. Edward spotted a brass wheel to one side of the machine, with a turning handle on it. A curved arrow embossed on the wheel casing suggested the direction of turning, Edward reached out and gave the handle a turn. Immediately the giant, clock like mechanism, began to click and whir. Edward noticed behind the wheel a pair of weights and as he turned the handle the lowest weight moved up. He turned the handle more and the weight rose further.

"What do you think it is for?" asked Rob.

"Well maybe it's something like the Countess of Wetherby," Edward suggested.

They stood and watched the fine movements of the mechanism and listened to it click and whir. The face on the embossed figure, detailed and seamed along the jowls looked like it was crafted with the ability of speech, but the face remained still and silent, the eyes closed as if in deep repose. It seemed nothing was going to happen. 

Edward reached out and gave the crank handle a few more turns then looking at Carmine shrugged and said, "What did you find behind your door?"

"Nothing much of interest, some store rooms and a kitchen. And you?" she asked Edward.

"Apartments and a library," replied Edward as a loud clank came from behind him. He span around and saw the mechanical face open its eyes. For a moment the three looked in surprise, then the entire figure shook, juddered and freed itself from the larger brass mechanism which had seemed to be a part of it.

The mechanical man bent down and picked up a folded robe from an armature and put it on.

Standing in a robe, Edward immediately recognised the figure. "Ra Chet!" he exclaimed.

Ra Chet bowed to Edward. "Is it you I have to thank for winding me up?" he asked, his voice while still mechanical, now sounding lots more vibrant and far less grinding than earlier.

"Ah Lord Philip wanted me to show you something," replied Edward, holding out his hand so the mechanical man could see his signet ring.

Again a stiller than life pause from Ra Chet as if all his energy was being used in examining the ring, for a moment he stood as a statue, then looked at Edward.

"Edward Infante, you have come, just as Lord Philip said you would. I am assignation Third Legion, Fourth Battalion, Group Six, unit Five general duties configuration of the Army of Sun Lao. Lord Philip called me Ra Chet."

"Well I think we will be calling you Ra Chet too," said Edward.

"I have served Lord Philip for fourteen years three months and twenty seven minutes, now I am instructed to serve Edward Infante until such time as he sees fit to assign me to another commander."

"Wow Edward, you have yourself a follower," said Rob, who was visibly impressed by Edwards' new servant.

"Can it fight?" Rob asked.

"If you refer to me Sir," Ra Chet replied, "I am configured for general duties, this would include combat, unarmed and general weaponry."

"Not just a servant," Rob laughed, "A bodyguard as well."

"What can you tell us about my father," ashed Carmine, "Do you know where he went?"

"I do not my Lady, only when, Lord Philip departed ten months two days and sixteen minutes ago, I have waited alone here since then. When you arrived I was beginning to run-down, I have been unable to tend the gardens and house duties for several weeks now, but thanks to Edward Infante I am once again wound tight."

"Couldn't you just wind yourself up?" asked Rob.

"That would require more energy than I have," replied the mechanical man. "Lord Philip built the winding station for me when he returned from his travels and once complete he was able to revive me from a long period of being unwound."

"Is this place the headquarters of the League of the White Rose?" asked Edward.

"No Edward Infante, your father and the League knew of this place and came here often, but this is Lord Philip's laboratory, the Leagues' headquarters were destroyed by your uncle.  Fortunately neither of your uncle's know of the laboratorys existence."

"So we are safe here." said Edward.

"For the time being," replied Carmine. "I will need to take on a small staff if we are to be here any length of time, it might look suspicious otherwise, but I don't know who I can trust."

"We could play the part of your staff," Rob volunteered , "No one knows who we are."

Carmine looked to Edward who shrugged, "It is an easy enough role for us," said Edward, "As long as you don't expect good service we are not exactly trained. Rob and I are used to looking after ourselves, but we have never been staff before." Then he stopped a shocked look coming over his face.

"Oh, and there is Anna, I forgot about her in all the excitement." he said.

"Anna, who is Anna," asked Carmine sharply.

"Anna Blacksteel is my sister, well sort of sister, we grew up together. I found her in London at Fairfield House, she is in the service of Mrs. Blatchington-Smythe. I told her I would return and get her."

"I think I might be able to help there," said Carmine looking thoughtful, "I have a plan I think will work. Meanwhile I suggest we get settled here for a while, that is, if you don't mind the servants quarters your Highness."

Edward snorted at Carmine's jib. "You've obviously forgotten I grew up in an orphanage, I'm sure any servants' quarters will be mightily more princely than the orphanage dormitory. I doubt Rob or myself will have any trouble roughing it at Apethorpe Manor."

"And I've had another idea," she said. "I thought one of the storerooms seemed a bit odd, but now I think about it, I'm certain its a dressing room, it's got wigs and cloaks and all manner of outfits, come on, lets take a look."

They ran back to the meeting chamber and entered the section of the underground complex which Carmine had searched. As she said, there was a room full of clothing, hats and wigs and even a dressing table with a large, well lit, looking-glass.

"Edward, I think you would rather suit these ginger moustaches," teased Carmine waving a big furry ginger caterpillar at Edward.

"They might suit you better," he retorted, and they laughed. After much trying on of wigs and hats he and Rob decided beards and moustaches were a good disguise. Edward chose a small well clipped beard which matched his hair colour while Rob chose a large black moustache with droopy ends. A little experimenting with the various gums and unctions which sat on the dresser in small pots and they soon had fake hairpieces stuck to their faces.

Carmine stood back and admired the work. "Well it wont fool the Duke of Northumberland, but it will do for now." she declared.
Chapter 19 – An unexpected ally
Edward and Carmine began to sort out the arraignments for their stay. "We need to allocate rooms for ourselves and I'll have supplies sent over from the Valiant," said Edward, "I guess we should close up the Laboratory for now, just to keep it safe. Are you fully wound Ra Chet?" he asked the mechanical man.

"I am as tight as I can be, thank you Edward Infante," he replied.

"And you must stop calling me Edward Infante, please just call me Edward." Edward insisted.

"Very well Edward." replied Ra Chet.

"We should contact Isambard and tell him where we are," said Edward.

"Isambard Van Klees?" asked Ra Chet, "Professor Van Klees?"

"The very same."

"I believe I can be of assistance Edward. We can use the bright-energy inter-locution device to send a signal which I'm sure Isambard will be able to receive."

"Bright-energy inter-locution device? what on earth is that?" asked Edward.

"It is in the Library," replied Ra Chet, leading them to the anti-chamber of the apartments Edward had so recently searched. In the room, Ra Chet walked over to a tall, dark wood, cabinet. He opened a small door in its front and turned a wheel mounted within the recess. The cabinet slid forward smoothly as if on small rails, as it did so, the top half of the cabinet swung open in two halves and a panel slipped out at waist level, revealing a host of complicated looking controls.

Ra Chet fiddled with the controls for a moment, then, clicking and whirring quietly to himself he followed a wire down the side of the cabinet.

"Is there a problem?" asked Edward.

"Just a minor one Edward, I think this wire has come loose." so saying Ra Chet reconnected the wire with a twist and the cabinet came to life. The instruments on the panel began to glow, the needles in the dials quivered and leapt up-right behind their little glass windows and a strange low hum emanated from the depths of the cabinet.

"Wow, amazing," said a wide eyed Rob.

"How does it work?" Edward asked, following his natural curiosity for mechanisms and their workings.

"It uses the power of trapped lightening energy which Lord Philip called bright-energy. Lord Philip and the Professor were able to create the bright-energy storage devices which are the jars in the laboratory and which provide energy to these rooms."

At that moment a loud crackling came from the bright-energy inter-locution device and an eerie crackling voice came from it saying, "Ahoy, ahoy?"

"Ahoy, Copper Swallow this is White Rose do you hear me over?" Ra Chet spoke into the talking cabinet.

"Ahoy, White Rose, Copper Swallow hearing loud and clear over," the cabinet replied.

"Ahoy, interesting party at location Iron Compass, repeat, Iron Compass, do you hear me over?"

"Ahoy, message received and understood, end transmission," the cabinet replied, then it fell silent.

"Was that the Professor’s voice coming from the talking device?" asked Edward.

"Yes, I was speaking directly to the Professor, in a coded language," replied Ra Chet, "He is Copper Swallow, your father was White Rose, and Apethorpe Manor is Iron Compass, this way the Guardians will not know who we are talking about or where we are."

"The Guardians could hear that?" asked Carmine in surprise.

"I'm afraid it is entirely possible my Lady," replied Ra Chet. "This is one of the forbidden technologies which the Guardians are most keen to keep to themselves. They have their own bright-energy inter-locution devices and detecting devices so they can listen in on, and locate, bright-energy activity. We must use them with great caution my Lady."

Suddenly, from the Manor house above them, a bell rang insistently.

"Someone has arrived," announced Ra Chet.

"Right, stay here Ra Chet, Rob and Cami will answer the door and see who it is. Remember Rob, you are playing the part of Cami's manservant. I'll keep out of the way for now." ordered Edward.

Each went to their tasks, Rob and Carmine rushing off up the stone stairway and into the manor.

"I will wait here Edward," the mechanical man said, "just tap on the floor and I will open the stairway for you."

Edward followed the other two up the stone stairs which closed silently behind him. He made his way casually along the corridor until he could peer through the slightly opened door and listen to what was happening in the hall.

The bell rang again, sounding much louder now he was in the manor. He saw Rob give his moustaches a final check before reaching out and opening the door.

"You rang." he heard Rob say, but he couldn't see who it was. Had the Guardians been able to find them so quickly? Was it even possible they could have traced such a quick transmission?

He couldn't hear what the visitor was saying but Rob reached out and took a small white piece of cardboard from the visitor and saying, "I will see if her Ladyship is in to visitors," he shut the door.

Rob and Carmine immediately began a hushed conversation. Edward stepped into the hall and called them over.

"What is going on? Who is it?" he asked.

"It is the young Duke of Bath, Lord Trafford, We were very close as children but I haven't seen him since I became an Imperial Agent," Carmine explained. "I'm sure he's harmless, and he seems very excited to see me."

"Can you vouch for him? can we trust him?" asked Edward.

"I believe we can."

Edward considered this a moment and decided it was a risk worth taking if this Lord Trafford was known to Carmine. "Very well, let him in and lets see what he has to say for himself," said Edward who quickly returned to his hiding place in the corridor.

Rob opened the front door again and admitted a young man, well built, if a little over weight, with a shock of chestnut brown hair and a clean shaven face. The Duke was wearing a heavy tweed three piece suit which was entirely too warm for the day. He stood a moment mopping at his perspiring brow with a monogrammed handkerchief he pulled from his top pocket.

When he finally spoke the Duke's voice was filled with the rich plummy accent of the British upper-classes. "Cami, Lady Apethorpe I should say, please accept my condolences on your loss..."

Carmine nodded to the Duke, "Thank you Percy, my father is greatly missed."

"But my, it is good to see again you though," continued Percy. "We had heard you were dead, lost in some desert somewhere, there have been all kind of rumours, the Infante himself was killed with you, and all sorts."

"Well as you can see Percy, I'm not dead, though I would appreciate it if you didn't put people right on that at the moment, I have a feeling being dead could be useful to me right now."

Percy looked confused but murmured his concession, "you make it all seem very exciting and mysterious," he added.

"How did you know I was here?" asked Carmine.

"I didn't. I saw the airship and though to myself, that looks like it is headed for the old Augustus place, so soon as I'd breakfasted and what-not I got the old Clarkson Mark V stoked up and came puffing over here fast as I could. Well I saw the ship in the garden and I thought to myself that can't be Cami can it? I mean you are an Imperial Agent, you have a clipper, so I thought maybe you were dead, like they've been saying, and someone had come to take away the things. Anyway you can't imagine my relief to find you alive and well, and I must confess it's not just because I'm pleased to see you, it's because I have troubles of my own."

"Troubles, what troubles?" asked Carmine.

"It's my sister, Emily."

"I remember her, little blue ribbons holding her golden hair in bunches."

"Yes, that's the one, actually she's all grown up now, quite the beauty they say, though I don't see it myself, but then, she is my sister. Anyway she's gone."

"Gone?"

"Yes, well, disappeared I guess. I mean it's not like her. She was supposed to be going to London with Mama and Papa for the Emperor's ball but when it came time to depart, she had already gone, disappeared that is. We haven't seen her since and Mama is completely at odds with herself over it. I really don't know what to do."

"It was my main though you see, when I saw the airship, I thought of you and how awfully clever and resourceful you used to be. So I thought to myself, Cami is an Imperial Agent now, maybe she knows something about my sister."

"Of course Mama is just in pieces and keeps having sobbing fits while Papa bangs on about how this sort of thing wouldn't have happened if Richard York was still alive. Apparently they were in some sort of club together. Well I couldn't stand it so I came over here to Ireland," Percy seemed to have finished his story.

"Well I don't know anything about Emily I'm afraid," said Carmine, "I wish I could help but I have problems of my own just now."

Percy looked crestfallen. "I understand Cami, of course, I should have thought."

From his place behind the door Edward heard Percy mention the club his father had been in and wondered if this was a reference the League. Here was the son of a League member asking for help, surely he could be trusted? Surely if they helped Percy, Percy would help them? So thinking he took the risk stepped out into the hall and strode over, hoping Carmine would play along with the new role he was inventing for himself.

"Lady Apethorpe," he nodded to Carmine, "Lord Trafford, I'm... Mr. Black, a shall we say... associate of Lady Apethorpe's. I couldn't help overhearing about your sister's troubles. I believe we may be able to help you."

"Really? Really?" asked Percy in astonishment, relief and gratitude written all over his face as he looked quickly from Edward to Carmine and back again. Carmine wore a slight quizzical look on her face, but said nothing.

"Why don't we all go to the study and you can tell us everything you know about your sister's disappearance." suggested Edward.

Carmine led them to a study just off the hallway where they all made themselves comfortable.

"Percy," said Edward, "if we help you, you understand we are putting ourselves at great risk? Can we trust you?"

"Of course," Percy looked to Carmine for support. "Cami and I go back a long way and I think she knows that if I give my word, I'll stick to it."

Carmine nodded her agreement.

"Very well then," said Edward. "Tell us everything you know about your sister's disappearance."

"Well I'm not sure I know anything really," said Percy. "She's, well, my little sister and she's all very nice and everything. She's seventeen years old and lives at Bastilion Hall near Bath with Mama and Papa. Anyway, the night before last she was at the Hall preparing for the Emperor's ball. She was going to go with Mama and Papa, and even be introduced to the Emperor himself."

"It was about eight O’clock and I was having the devil of a time with a particularly fancy set of cuff-links when I heard a great uproar around the house. Everyone was rushing up and down stairs, in and out of rooms, calling Emily's name. Milly, Emily's maid, was particularly distraught at having lost her mistress. Suffice it say we haven't found Emily since.  Then Lord Darkmere came over and thundered about the house, he's Emmie's new beau, Mama says he will be asking Papa for her hand any day now, but I don't think Papa likes him much."

"Lord Darkmere," said Carmine, "Funny you should mention him, I bumped in to him myself recently, at the Emperor's ball no less. Your sister's disappearance didn't keep him away."

"No, well he is very keen to get in with the Emperor," replied Percy.

"I think we need to go to Bath and question the other members of the household," said Edward. "There maybe someone there who knows something."

"Look Percy, you've given us your word, so I'm trusting you. We need to travel incognito and we don't want you giving the game away, can you keep our secret?"

"Oh yes, absolutely," replied Percy.

"Very well then. I suggest we all get a good nights' sleep, and tomorrow we will take the Valiant to Bath and pay a visit to Bastilion Hall." said Edward, to which they all agreed.

Early the following morning with a mist still coiled around the hedges and trees, a small group made its way across the dew laden grass to the tethered airship. A few minutes latter the five of them, including Percy and Ra Chet were crammed into the Valiant's small passenger cabin. The ship rose silently and gracefully into the skies, turned gently and headed east.

"I should introduce our other associates properly," Edward said to Percy once they were settled on the narrow seats, except Ra Chet who prefered to stand near the door.

"Lady Apethorpe of course you know already. Captain Badger, and our distinguished, disfigured friend, from the East, Professor Ra Chet, and I, are adventurers who are inclined from time to time to help Lady Apethorpe in her various assignments." Edward wasn't about to give all their secrets away, besides which, it was an opportunity to try out a story he had devised as cover for them. Ra Chet was the biggest challenge, as even in his hooded cloak, he looked noticably unusual.

"The Professor here suffered an horrendous accident which has left his face and body terribly disfigured, which is why he wears a mask and gloves at all times, to spare us the awful sight of his injuries," Edward explained away Ra Chet's unusual appearance.

Percy seemed satisfied with this explanation.

"I think together we stand a good chance of finding your sister. What we may lack in experience, we more than make up for in resourcefulness," continued Edward.

"I think it may be best if I present myself at Bastilion Hall as a Private Investigator who Percy has hired. This will allow us to go around questioning everyone." said Edward.

"What do you expect us to find out?" asked Carmine.

"We don't really know anything at the moment, so, anything anyone can tell us will help." replied Edward.

"I used to like reading the penny dreadfuls as a child," Carmine confessed. "As I recall from them the detectives always ask questions like, where were you at the time of the murder? Can you account for your whereabouts, and they are always spotting clues."

"Asking everyone about their movements at the time is a good idea," agreed Edward, "I don't know about clues, how do we know what a clue is?"

"You might say we haven't a clue," Rob chipped in.

"Ha ha, yes well that's exactly it," agreed Edward, "We will just have to figure it out as we go along."

They were interrupted as a crewman entered the cabin.

"Your Ladyship, we have received a message from Professor Van Klees for you, He instructs that we are to meet with the A.S Gallant at Swainswick just north of Bath. He says it's too dangerous for you to dock at Bath, the authorities are inspecting all incoming airships," he informed them.

"Thank you," Carmine replied, "When can expect to reach Swainswick?"

"We are due to land within the hour my Lady." The Crewman withdrew leaving the friends alone once again.

"I wonder what it is all about," mused Rob.

"They are all whipped up about the Pretender," replied Percy. "There are a lot of rumours flying arround, but as I understand it, after the Infante died there have been a series of Pretenders, it's even said ,one tried to get to the Queen herself, but the Emperor was too clever to allow that."

"I see," said Edward. "And what are they saying about this Pretender?"

"Well of course making such a claim is punishable by death, the Department of Internal Affairs has Agents everywhere at the moment," replied Percy. "I should think anyone trying that game at the moment had better be the Infante."

"Though the Infante himself may be at risk of being mistaken for a Pretender," remarked Edward.

"Why yes," said Percy, "I hadn't thought of it that way."

"And what do you think Percy?" asked Carmine.

"I don't really see how the Infante can have survived, I mean he's been gone over ten years, but if he is alive, well then, that would be great. My father, the Duke ,is always going on about how things were under Victor II, Richard York as he likes to call him." Percy lowered his voice, "I don't think he likes the current Emperor very much, he's always been suspicious of how Henry came to power and I get the feeling he once knew them well, but he's never actually said so."

Their ears began to pop as the Valiant lost height and the cabin became warm and stuffy.

"Looks like we are over Swainswick," said Rob looking through one of the small portholes. They appeared to be descending to a field near a small village.

"Any sign of the Gallant?" asked Carmine.

"No," replied Rob craning his neck to get a better view.

The crewman reappeared and informed them all it was time to assemble on the gantry. They filled out after him and found the ship floating twenty or so feet above the ground.

"I'm afraid it's down the rope-ladder," said the crewman pushing the coiled ladder off the edge of the gantry. It fell outwards and downwards unfurling as it went. As soon as it touched the ground Rob began his descend.

The ladder swayed terribly as he climbed down. At the bottom he weighed the ladder down with his own weight, holding it while the others followed. Once they were all safely on the ground Rob released the ladder and a moment later the Valiant rose up in to the sky.

Edward looked round the empty field. "Well I guess were walking to Bath," he said making ready to walk toward a nearby house. "I think the road is over there."

"What happened to the Gallant?" asked Carmine, "I don't understand."

"Who knows," replied Edward as he strode off.

The party approached the edge of the field and the gate. Percy noticed a figure standing in the road waving. "Is that someone waving at us?" he asked pointing to the gesticulating figure.

"You know I think that is," replied Edward. "In fact it looks like Chesterton."

On reaching the gate it became clear it was Chesterton waiting for them with a steam-car which already had a good head of steam going.

"Good morning Sir," Chesterton greeted Edward.

"Morning Chesterton. I must say your timing is excellent, how on earth did you find us here?"

"I came in on the Gallant not half an hour ago, we lifted the car in as well. Had the devil of a time getting it out of the field, it's a bit boggy by the gate. I take it we are headed for Bath."

"For  Bastilion Hall the seat of the Duke of Bath. This is Lord Percy Trafford, the next Duke of Bath." said Edward.

"Pleased to meet you Sir," Chesterton greeted Percy.

They climbed into the steam-car and were no sooner settled when Chesterton, sat on top, engaged the engine and they began to move down the dirt track which passed for the roadway in Swainswick. They came to the village high street which was nothing more than a few houses, an inn and a shop after which the road widened and its surface improved a little. Once they were on the Bath Road, the main route from Swindon and Oxford to Bath, it was only a few minutes before they entered Bath itself and were chugging past sweeping crescents, town houses, and grand circular gardens.
Chapter 20 – Bastilion Hall
The steam-car chug chugged through the busy streets of Bath on to the Upper Bristol Road and turned off the main thoroughfare at Windsor Bridge. They past through impressive iron gates mounted on large, stone gateposts, each with a stone lion atop, standing guard.

The hard rubber rims of the steam-car crunched gravel beneath them as they drove. Either side wide grass verges held court to peacocks and white fluffy sheep. The drive led them to Bastilion Hall standing a hundred yards back from the river Avon itself. A large, dark, imposing building from the early Victorian era, a stark frontage with subdued, Gothic style, mock battlements and smallish windows giving it an austere and stern appearance like a nanny who never wholly approves of her charges, no matter how well behaved.

"The house has a way of reminding me to behave myself," said Percy, as they dismounted from the steam-car and gathered in a loose group in front of the long flat stone which formed the single front step of the manor.

"I've always though it a bit grim, I must admit," added Carmine.

"But it is home, been in the family generations, I don't suppose we'd change it now, its like an old friend," said Percy.

"You did grow up here," said Carmine.

"Should I ring Sir?" asked Chesterton removing his driving goggles and thick leather driving gauntlets.

"If you would," replied Edward.

The door was answered by a tall thin man in a black house jacket who solemnly looked over the group then, recognising Percy, said, "Ah Master Percy, I didn't see you there for a minute. Shall I tell your Father you are here?"

"Please do Jenkins," replied Percy.

Jenkins disappeared into the house and the others dutifully followed Percy into an imposing hall. A grand staircase swept up to the first floor, flanked on each side by two huge aspidistra in five foot high, dark-green glaze pots. From the walls the stern visages of Percy's ancestors surrounded by their dogs and horses, leaned casually on their guns and looked down at the visitors from their gilt framed pastoral scene.

"Welcome to Bastilion Hall," said Percy. "Perhaps we should make our way to the study." he suggested.

The Dukes' study was typical of its kind. Bookshelves lined the walls, a globe of the world stood in one corner, the Duke's large oak desk held a brass lamp, an ornate Chinese paperweight and a littering of pens and pencils. A neat pile of papers sat in a wire basket on one side of the desk and a pile of household receipts were impaled on a large bent nail.

No sooner had the friends arrived than the study door flew open and the Duke and Duchess of Bath entered the room. The Duke, a large man with an imposing grey moustache, the Duchess, a well endowed woman with a round face which always wore a smile. The Duke strode over to his son and offered his hand, "Glad to have you back Percy," he boomed.

The Duchess, moving surprisingly lightly, went over to Percy and hugged him, kissed him on the cheeks and said, "It's good to see you my darling Percy."

"Mama, Papa may I introduce my friends, Lady Apethorpe you already know of course, and these are her associates, Mr. Black, Captain Badger and Professor Chet. They have kindly agreed to help us find Emily," said Percy.

"Have they now indeed?" boomed the Duke who gave them all a good looking over. As he turned to Edward his expression changed, and he muttered, "There's something about you boy," but said nothing further.

"If you are friends of Percy's then you are welcome here," said the Duchess, "and if you can find out anything about Emily, well, we would be most awfully grateful."

"You are with the Department of Internal Affairs aren't you?" the Duke asked Carmine. "Do they know anything?"

"The fact is I'm working undercover at the moment, so I'm not as up to date with the Department's news as I should be, but I don't think so."

"Mr. Black is a private detective," said Percy, "I think he is hoping to question everyone in the house about Emily's disappearance."

"Yes, yes of course he should," said the Duchess, "Just tell us what you need Mr. Black."

"I will need a list of everyone in the house at the time of Emily's dissapearance and a room to interview everyone," Edward replied promptly.

"You can use my study," the Duke said, "as to the list, now let me see." He began rooting through the paperwork on his desk.

"It's been quite a while since we last saw you," the Duchess said to Carmine. "Indeed we'd heard a rumour you were dead, like your dear Father, who's passing we still mourn and who we already miss greatly."

"Thank you," replied Carmine. "As you can see, I'm still alive, the rumours of my death, while highly exaggerated, are useful in my current assignment, I'd appreciate it if you didn't mention to anyone that you have seen me."

"No of course not my dear, We will not say a word, but tell me, are the rumours about the Infante true?" asked the Duchess.

"I don't know," replied Carmine.

"But Vilners Darkmere was saying you were sent by the Department to bring the Infante back," insisted the Duchess.

"And it was Vilners who told us Carmine had died in the Texan Desert," snorted the Duke.

"Yes Dear, and Carmine isn't dead, so did she meet the Infante?" replied the Duchess with sweet logic.

"I did, and the last I saw of him he was still alive," replied Carmine. At this the Duke looked sharply at Edward before quickly returning his attention to the papers on his desk.

"Ah, here it is, everyone who was in the house the night Emily disappeared," he said triumphantly passing the paper to Edward who studded it carefully.

"I will need to interview everyone on this list, including yourselves. If I could start with the Duke, perhaps Jenkins would be good enough to inform the staff I shall want to see them." said Edward. "Carmine, if wouldn't mind helping me, I have a little job for Percy and Captain Badger."

He took the two over to one side and said quietly, "I want you to study the staff, see if there's any reaction to our arrival, oh, and keep on the lookout for any runners, if someone makes a break-for-it then that's probably our man," said Edward, the others nodded their agreement and left the room.

Edward looked around. "I think I'll sit here at the Duke's desk and the interviewee here in this chair." He placed a chair in-front of the desk, "Carmine if you would stand slightly behind them, yes that's it," he said, then turning to the Duke, "Your Lordship if you would be so good..." Edward indicated the chair.

The Duke sat down looking slightly uncomfortable and couldn't help a glance over his shoulder at Carmine and another at Ra Chet who stood patiently and silently next to the bookcase.

Edward cleared his throat. "Your Lordship you were in the house at the time?" he asked.

"I was." replied the Duke.

"And what were you doing exactly?"

"I was here in the study."

"And did you notice anything, anything at all?"

"Not that I can remember."

"Please, your Lordship, If we are to find Emily you must think. Anything, the smallest of details, may make all the difference."

"The only thing that comes to mind is I heard our carriage arrive early. I'd asked Johnson, our coachman, to bring the carriage round for six O'clock, but I distinctly heard the carriage arriving at five thirty."

"I see. If you think of anything else your Lordship, please mention it. Now I think I'd better see Johnson," said Edward making some rough notes on a scrap of paper he had liberated from the Duke's desk.

The Duke left and a few moments latter a surly looking dark-haired man dressed in a long leather coat and riding boots entered the room.

"Mr. Johnson?" asked Edward as the man sat down.

"That's right Sir, I'm the Duke's coachman."

"Am I right in thinking that on the night Emily disappeared the Duke asked you bring the carriage round at six O'clock?"

"You are Sir, and I brought the carriage round on the strike of six, I remember hearing the clock bell ringing as I did so," asserted the coachman.

"And you didn't see anything untoward? Notice anything unusual?"

Johnson though a moment then said slowly, "Only I likes to give the horse a last drink before a long drive and I'd put a bucket out front ready, but when I brought the carriage round the bucket was half empty."

"I see, well thank you for your cooperation Mr. Johnson, please don't go anywhere we may need to see you again."

Edward turned to Carmine as Johnson left the room. "What do you think?" he asked.

"It does seem a bit strange, the Duke hearing the carriage at five thirty." said Carmine.

"He heard a carriage at five thirty," replied Edward. "I have a theory though."

Before he could continue the door opened and a young girl wearing a cream blouse, a dark full-length skirt and a white apron, entered the study. It was clear from her swollen red rim eyes she had been recently crying.

"And you are?" Edward asked softly.

"I'm Milly Sir, Miss Emily's personal maid."

"Are you, are you indeed, I've been most keen to have a word with you, please take a seat," said Edward. The girl glanced nervously round the room at Carmine and the silent Professor Chet, before sitting down.

"You were the last to see Emily?" asked Edward.

The girl fidgeted the ties of her apron with red chapped fingers which twisted and turned the white material, without lifting her eyes from the floor she replied in tones so quiet Edward had to ask her to repeat herself.

"I suppose so Sir," she repeated pushing a strand of curly brown hair from her lowered face.

"And what time would that have been?" asked Edward.

"I don't really know, just before six O'clock, the Duke said she had to be ready for six an he don't like it when people is late," replied Milly.

"And where did you last see her?" asked Edward leaning forward in his chair.

"I er, well that is to say Sir, I saw her get into the carriage at the front of the Hall Sir."

Edward sensed a great fear in her as she said this, he was certain she was hiding something.

"You saw Emily get into the carriage, but you didn't see the Duke or Duchess, then what happened?"

"The carriage left Sir, I er, I though perhaps the Duke and Duchess were already aboard."

"So you didn't see inside the carriage? Can you remember what the driver looked like? Can you remember anything about the carriage itself?"

"No Sir, I didn't see inside the carriage. I don't know what it looked like, like an ordinary carriage I think."

"Do you remember if it had a crest on the door?"

"I'm not sure Sir, I don't think so."

"Yet you are familiar with the Dukes' carriage, it carries the Dukes' crest on its doors does it not?" Edward pressed her.

"Yes Sir," replied Milly looking very tearful again.

"And it didn't strike you as strange that the waiting carriage wasn't the Dukes' ?"

"I don't know," wailed the girl.

"I think you know more than your telling us," said Edward. "You brought your Mistress down early and put her into a strange carriage, why would you do that?"

"I don't know Sir, I can't say, I don't know anything else really I don't."

"Come come now, you can tell us," Edward cajoled her, "dry your tears and tell us everything."

"Perhaps Milly and I should go somewhere private and have a little heart to heart chat," said Carmine.

Milly looked up at her and nodded, at which Carmine took her by the elbow and gently led her from the room.

"What's all this then?" said the Duke as he came into the study. "I see you have reduced poor Milly to tears. I'm not sure I can have my staff treated like that."

Edward leant back in his chair. "My dear Duke, please, first I must conduct my investigation as I see fit, and second, that girl knows more than she is telling. I have already found out from your own statements that an unknown carriage arrived at five thirty, Milly put your daughter on board and it was gone when Johnson brought your carriage around on the strike of six. As the girl is the only witness to the mysterious carriage it is essential we find out everything she knows. Lady Apethorpe has taken the girl to calm her down and try to gain her confidence."

"I must say I'm impressed with your progress Mr. Black," said the Duke, calming down and taking a seat. "I must confess, I doubted your abilities in the investigatory arts, and I have my suspicions about you Mr. Black."

"Do you indeed?" replied Edward dryly.

"You know, if it wasn't for your beard, I'd say you were the spitting image of the late Emperor Victor II," the Duke said, piercing Edward with his steely eyes. It occurred to Edward the Duke was far more formidable than he had first thought.

"Are you telling me you think I'm the Infante? Do you really believe all those silly rumours?" asked Edward.

"I'm not saying you are the Infante, nor that I believe the gossip, but where there is smoke there is fire. One thing is certain, after years of silence on the matter, suddenly the return of the Infante is the talk of the day, whether they are claiming it or denying it. All I will say is that our allegiances lay with the old Emperor Victor II and this family would stand for the rightful accession of the true Infante to his proper state as Emperor of Britain."

Edward leaned towards the Duke and in a low voice said, "It is good to know where true friends can be found."

"And we are true to the rightful heir of the Crown." responded the Duke before sitting back in his chair. After a moment he said, "There is something else about you boy, your companion, Professor Chet here, was he acquainted with Philip Augustus?"

"I knew Lord Apethorpe," replied the mechanical man from his post by the bookshelf.

"Ah you do talk," said the Duke, "I thought I recognised that scar of yours, seen you somewhere before, you were Apethorpe Manor when I last visited Philip."

"That is correct Duke Trafford," replied Ra Chet.

They were interrupted by Carmine's return. She had an excited look on her face as she spoke in hurried tones. "I've had a very informative chat with Milly, really she was just waiting to pour her heart out to a confidant, all she need was a shoulder to cry on."

"What did she tell you?" Edward asked barely ably to hide his impatience to get to the bottom of the matter.

"She recognised the carriage, and the driver, in fact she knew the driver," said Carmine. "It was all a set up. Milly has been seeing Lord Darkmere's coachman..."

"Vilners," hissed the Duke.

"So he tells Milly it is well known the Duke would never approve of a Marriage between his daughter and Lord Darkmere," said Carmine.

"It is all my fault," moaned the Duke, "I only allowed it to go on because I didn't want to get on the Emperor's bad side. He favours the dark hearted Vilners and his kind, those who flatter his every move, praise him and who seek to destroy those who would stand up to or speak out against the Emperor."

"But what of Emily? Do we know where she is now?" asked Edward.

"Vilners plans to elope with Emily," Carmine said.

"Elope," snorted the Duke, "abduct more like."

"Yes well I think we can safely assume it is an abduction," said Carmine. "Milly though it was all exciting and romantic, the two of them eloping together, but when they got to the carriage an agent of Lord Darkmere was waiting within and when he restrained Emily, it became clear to Milly then that her Ladyship had known nothing of a plan to elope. Milly's boyfriend, the coachman told her to keep her mouth shut or her mistress would be the worse for it, so the poor girl has been torn."

"Do we know where they were bound?" asked Edward.

"Yes, Lord Dakemere's castle, at Blackwater in the Cornish marshes," replied Carmine.

"Then it is to Cornwall we must go," declared Edward, "and without a moment to loose."

"You must catch him before he leaves the country," the Duke called after them, "He can't Marry her in England, she's too young."

"The Duke is right," said Carmine as they gathered the others, "but there are plenty of places for him to choose from."

Within the hour Chesterton had the steam-car all stoked up and with a good head of steam and the party drove swiftly back up the drive headed for Cornwall.
Chapter 21 – Darkmere escapes
The steam-car rattled along at a good pace throwing up a fine cloud of summer dust behind it. They soon put Bristol and Bastilion Hall behind them as they raced through the verdant English countryside. Through small square dusty windows Edward watched passing fields  of golden wheat, ripening in the sun, fat contented cows lazily chewing summer grass and orchards of apples and pears, each bough beginning to bend from the weight of its growing fruits.

As dusk fell they found themselves on the Cornish peninsular with a good distance to Blackwater Castle still before them. Chesterton halted the steam-car at a modest inn on the high road. Everyone dismounted and stretched their aching limbs, relieved after so long in the confines of the car. Even Ra Chet took a quick stroll around the vehicle, though he quickly returned to stand and wait by the open door. Clearly conserving his energy, while Chesterton oversaw the loading of more fuel and water for the vehicle.

Edward checked his watch, only an hour before sundown. As he tucked the timepiece back into his pocket he noticed Ra Chet taking an interest in it, but the mechanical man only looked, and made no comment.

Edward, Carmine, Rob and Percy made themselves comfortable in the lounge bar of the Fallen Horse Inn and took food and ale, while they watched the Innkeeper's sons wheel out a fresh barrel of oil and taking the recently emptied one from its place on the back of the car, heaved its heavy wooden replacement onto the holding brackets and Chesterton fired up the car's furnace and began the process of heating up the boiler. He joined the others for a hurried bite of supper while the car built up a good head of steam.

They set off once more as the last light of day was fading. The road ahead wove its way through twisting marshes. Here thin trees pointed crooked fingers at the dark dank waters in which they stood. An eerie wind came off the marshes carrying the stench of unmentionable things rotting in the foetid waters and the strained cries of water fowl and marsh beast, sounds which sent a chill through the group.

"I'm not sure I like it out here," said Percy.

"It IS a bit creepy," confessed Carmine.

"It's just the woods at night," said Rob, "They are no danger."

"These marshes are," insisted Percy, "There are bogs and treacherous mires out here which will suck you down into their muddy waters leaving not a trace behind."

"But we are all-right if we stick to the road right?" asked Edward.

"Well I don't know," said Percy, "but I suppose we are."

"Hush, listen," said Carmine.

They all listened for a moment. "Can you hear that?" she asked.

"Engine sounds fine," said Edward.

"No not that, sounds like a horse, I think someone is following us." Even as she spoke the sound of horses hooves became clearer over the chug-chuging engine noise of the steam-car.

Edward popped the hatch in the roof of the car and stuck his head out, sure enough a horseman was quickly coming upon them from behind.

"Hey Chesterton, we are being followed," he shouted to the leather helmeted Chesterton who glanced over his shoulder at Edwards cry.

"Can we go any faster?" called Edward.

"Fraid not Sir," came the reply, "We will just have to let him catch us, then we will find out what his business is for sure."

A few minutes later the horseman caught them up. He appeared to be alone, and as he drew level with Chesterton he called out.

"Chesterton? Is that you?"

"It is," Chesterton called back, "and who might you be?"

"It's me, Simon, Captain Proctor-Legate," the horseman cried back.

Hearing the horseman shout out to Chesterton, Edward opened the hatch and stuck his head out again.

"Captain Legate is that you?" he called.

"Ah, young Edward, glad to see you are safe. I've had the devil of a time catching up with you."

"Its Captain Legate," Edward told the occupants of the car, "seems like he's found us at last," he laughed.

The Captain, on horseback, was able to lead the way and they picked up more speed, never-the-less it was two hours in the cramped confines of the steam-car's cabin before they caught sight of Blackwater Castle. As they turned a final bend the steam-car emerged from the marshes to chug up the low hill upon which stood the castle. The moon had risen and threw a silver light casting the Castle in stark silhouette, its thick walls and heavy battlements looking black and impenetrable. From a tower high above the castle courtyard a single yellow light showed from a solitary window.

"Perhaps that is the room my sister is being held in," said Percy.

As they drew closer to the castle it was clear the drawbridge was down and the steam-car was able to rumble over the thick wooden planking into the deserted courtyard. Edward, Percy and Rob leapt from the car as Percy began calling out for Darkmere, "Vilners, Vilners, I know your here, It's Lord Trafford and I want to speak to my sister."

His cries were met with dank silence. The wind played with their hair and coat tails, a door creaked, somewhere water dripped from a cracked pipe into a butt, the place seemed deserted. Percy reached the front door and rattled it, the noise echoed across the courtyard.

"Where is everyone?" asked Edward, "The soldiers and the staff? Is the castle deserted?Perhaps we should start searching for a way in, see if Darkmere has left any clue to his whereabouts."

At that moment the castle door swung open and figure silhouetted lamplight looked out. "Who comes to the castle at this time of night?" a sleepy male voice called out.

"It is I, Lord Trafford," replied Percy.

"And your business here at this hour my Lord?"

"I wish to see Lord Darkmere on a matter most urgent."

"You had better come in then, I suppose."

They followed the figure into the castle, their footsteps ringing on the bare stone floor as they past between the suits of armour which stood guard either side of the doorway.  Great black banners bearing stark red motifs hung from the walls on iron rods tipped with dragons' heads.

"Wait here my Lord," the doorman said, lighting a lamp and disappearing down a dark corridor.

Several minutes passed before they heard footsteps approaching. A light appeared at the top of the stairs and began descending slowly, as the light reached the top of the grand staircase a voice called, "Who is it?"

"It is Sir Percy, Lord Trafford of Wells, and who might you be?" replied Percy.

The light came further down the stairs until they made out a man dressed in a monks' habit. Edward couldn't help thinking he had the most unlikely face for a monk. The man wore his grey hair cut short, and sported a small grey beard which failed to hide the distinct features of a fighter. Edward saw the man's muscles bulging under his habit. If he was a monk, he was not of a peace loving, fruit picking order, that was for sure.

"I am Brother Sancticus of the Order of the Light of God, personal advisor to Lord Darkmere in matters both spiritual and temporal."

"If you would be so good then as to advise his Lordship that I wish to speak with him about his involvement in my sister's disappearance," said Percy.

"His Lordship has my confidence, and asks I aid your enquiries. As to your sister, I know nothing of her and can assure you His Lordship would never be involved in any such thing."

"Your assurances are hollow priest," replied Percy, a little annoyed at the man's attitude, "We know Vilners is involved, whatever you may say, and as you either know nothing, or will not tell, again I ask, where is Vilners? Is he here?"

"I am not at liberty to say where his Lordship is at this very moment."

"Then you are not much of an emissary as you seem to know nothing of use." Percy retorted. "I will search this castle until I find some trace of him." With that Percy grabbed up the lamp and headed for the stairs.

"I'm afraid I can't let you do that your Lordship," said Brother Sancticus, as he moved swiftly to intercept Percy.

Edward glanced at Rob, unable to let Percy rush alone, he gave him a nod. As one, the two boys drew swords and leapt to Percy's aid.

"I think you will permit it," said Edward, pressing his sword point into the surprised monk's neck. "Indeed I think you will lead the way to Darkmere's apartments."

Sheathing his sword Rob took out his pistol and waived it at Brother Sancticus, "of we go then," he said.

Brother Sancticus led them up the stairs from whence he'd come, over the great staircase and on to a narrower set of stairs which ran around the inner walls of the castle. They entered a corridor walking a little way down it before coming upon a door.

"No tricks now priest, I don't want to find a guard room on the other side of this door," said Edward. Brother Sancticus gave him a withering look.

"Open the door," ordered Edward.

The priest turned the heavy handle and the door creaked open, all was darkness inside. As they entered and lamp light was cast across the room, they saw they were in some sort of reception room, thick carpet underfoot, tasteful landscape paintings adorned the walls. Edward found a gas lamp and lit it.

"Which one is Darkmere's room?" asked Edward indicating the two door that led off the reception room.

"I really must protest at your behaviour," Brother Sancticus said loudly. "You can't just break in here demanding to see his Lordship like this."

"I think we already have," said Percy. "Now which door?"

A crash came from behind one of the doors. Edward and Percy leapt forward and opened the door, as they did so a shot rang out whistling passed their heads. They took cover against the wall and Edward risked a peek in. The room was empty but a slight movement caught his eye and he jumped into the room, just as the bookcase slid back into place.

"There's a secret passageway behind here," said Edward, looking around for the mechanism.

"How do we open the door priest?" Rob asked pressing his pistol into the monk's back.

"There's usually a leaver in the fireplace," said Percy, "or an ornament on the mantelpiece."

Edward looked at him.

"Well that's where they are in our house," said Percy.

They pulled and tugged at various ornaments and fixtures around the fireplace, the poker, its stand, the air-vent and a large ornate carriage clock. Edward grabbed a solid looking silver angel standing at one end of the mantelpiece and gave it a good tugging. It levered forward and the bookcase slid open.

"Ha," cried Percy triumphantly and grabbing up one of the lamps in the room he rushed into the black space revealed behind the bookcase.

"Don't let the priest go," Edward told Rob, "we may need him yet," then grabbing a second lamp he ran after Percy.

The passageway was dank and covered in cobwebs. Darkmere didn't usually use it as way of moving around his castle. The stone flagging beneath Edward's feet were treacherous with slime and several times he had to steady himself against the cold damp walls. The passageway led to a narrow set of steps and Edward began to climb. As he neared the top of the stairs he heard voices coming from above.

The stairs ended abruptly at an iron wall. A simple leaver set flush into the iron wall operated its mechanism and in a moment Edward was leaping from the passage into a circular stone room. The room's windows were narrow arrow slits carved in the stone, each covered with a long red velvet curtain hung from an iron rod. A spiral staircase led to a room above. Percy and Darkmere stood in the middle of the room, swords drawn. As Edward burst in they both looked and Darkmere took the opportunity of the distraction to lunge at Percy, who neatly side-stepped the move.

"And who is your little friend?" sneered Vilners circling round so he faced them both as he tugged down the edge of his black waist-coat which he wore over a white shirt. With his black boots and trousers he looked dressed ready to travel, missing only his overcoat.

"His identity is irrelevant Vilners, where is my sister?"

"Oh, you need not worry about Emily, she perfectly safe, and I may add, safe from you. You'll see her again, though when you do she'll be Lady Darkmere," he laughed.

"You fiend," cried Percy lunging at Vilners with his sword. Vilners parried and returned a riposte.

"It seems to me your going to have trouble marrying Emily if you can't make it to the wedding yourself," remarked Edward, causing Darkmere to scowl at him.

"Your point, whoever you may be, is well put Sir. I shall not tarry long with you two if I'm to be wed. My fiancé awaits," cried Vilners, flicking back his black hair with a toss of his head.

"I think you underestimate the advantages of our company," said Edward, "I can assure you we are really most worth while spending time with, you might even enjoy yourself."

"I doubt you have the wit or the wisdom to entertain me," scoffed Vilners.

"We will have to detain you non-the-less," responded Edward.

"You might wish to, but not tonight I think, my guards will be bursting through that door any moment now." And as if to illustrate his words the sound of voices and running feet came from beyond the door.

"Well I must bid you both adieu, wish me luck in my newly wedded life," he paused a moment for thought then said, "It's unfortunate that my fiancé’s brother wont be making it to the reception," and with that, he fired his sword directly into Percy's chest.

"Percy!" Edward cried, as the stout boy fell in a crumpled heap on the floor, Vilners leaping for the iron stairs.

As Edward bent over his fallen friends' body the cry of a woman came from the room above. "It's her, its Emily," croaked Percy, "Save her."

Without a moments hesitation Edward leapt after Vilners racing up the stairs behind him. A thrust of his sword into the heal of Vilners' boot caused the man to stop and turn, engaging Edward with the blade of his sword. They cut and parried at each other, Vilners with the advantage of height began to force his opponent back down the stairs, but as he did so was forced to descend once again back into the room.

Another cry came from above, quickly muffled as it was cut off. Vilners lost his concentration for a moment casting a glance up the stairs, Edward saw his opening and thrust, Vilners parried but Edwards blade cut through Vilners fine shirt and pierced his arm.

A look of sheer hatred crossed Vilners face, "Just who the hell are you little man?" he cried thrusting an ill aimed blow at Edward.

"I'm Mr. Black," Edward replied, easily knocking Vilners' blow out of the way.

"Not Edward Black?" asked Vilners an evil grin creeping across his face, "Also known as Edward York, Edward Infante, pretender to the throne? You know you will never accede, your uncle wont let it happen, you wont live long enough. In fact, I think I'll kill you for him, now myself," he levelled his sword at Edward as if readying for a second shot.

"You only have one shot in your sword, and you have used it already," said Edward.

Vilners looked a little upset," and what do you know about Guardian swords little boy? You had better back off, you have no idea of the power of the forces you are up against," he sneered.

"Well I have one myself for starters, so I know how many shots it has," replied Edward. Sensing a trick, he didn't raise his sword to the firing position but kept it en-guard.

"Give it up now boy, you are dead anyway, an unwanted nuisance from the forgotten passed," Vilners cried.

A loud banging and shouting came from the chamber door.

"I think that's my cue to depart, it has been more entertaining than I thought," said Vilners now quickly backing up the stairs as the door flew open and two soldiers burst in wearing the red uniform coats of the East India Company.

"Arrest this man," ordered Vilners, but the soldiers seemed to have something else on their minds, fearing more, that which was behind them, than their employer. They turned to face the doorway just burst through and as they did so something glinted in the darkness beyond them. The next moment stood shocked with a bizarre blade of gleaming silver thrust through their chests. The soldiers were lifted bodily off their feet and flung like rag dolls across the room as Ra Chet strode in. The blades slid neatly back into slots in his arms. Behind him came Carmine and Captain Legate.

"Percy," cried Carmine seeing her friend lying on the floor she rushed over to him.

Edward turned back to Vilners, but using the diversion, he was gone. Edward raced up the  stairs, Captain Legate on his heels and into a small room with a simple wooden bench running round it's edge. A single door leading out on to a parapet swung idly in the night breeze. Edward crossed the room in two bounds and on to the parapet which ran all the way around the tower.

In front of him the dark shape of an airship hung in the sky blocking out the light of the stars. It must have come upon the castle after they had arrived, approaching unseen beyond the high walls. Its gangway hung loosely from the gantry and a victorious Vilners stood clinging to the cabin doorway of the receding ship.

"I win Edward Infante," he shouted. The cry of a woman's voice from within the airship came on the wind and Vilners turned and said something as the ship drifted further and further away. Edward aimed his sword gun at the receding figure but Captain Legate placed his hand over Edwards and pushed the sword down.

"Don't do it son, if that's a hydrogen ship it might explode, you don't want Emily going down in flames?"

Angry and frustrated Edward turned his back on the airship, the faint strains of Vilners laugh carried tauntingly on the breeze.
Chapter 22 – Blackwater Castle
Diving back into the tower, Edward rushed down stairs to the room below where Carmine  was cushioning Percy's head in her lap, a pool of blood slowly spreading across the stone floor.

Captain Legate leant over Percy's fallen body and carefully opened the thick tweed jacket and waistcoat which Percy was so fond of wearing. He examined the wound. It had been a clean shot, the bullet passing high on Percy's chest and it appeared to have missed any vital organs.

"I'm no doctor, but I've seen my share of wounds, and I say he'll live," pronounced the old soldier, "but he is loosing a lot of blood, we need to staunch the flow." Tearing his own shirt into strips Captain Legate bound Percy's chest. The boy moaned and cried out as they moved him, but thankfully lapsed quickly into a fevered unconsciousness.

The captain tied off the last strip of shirt and wiped his bloodied hands on his trousers. "Well that's the best I can do for him. We can't moving him though, the journey back to Bristol would do for him."

"We need to get a message to the Valiant, or to Professor Van Klees at least," said Edward. "But how? I don't suppose Vilners has a bright-energy inter-locution device handily hidden in his apartment."

"May I see your watch Edward?" asked Ra Chet, without his usual robe his metallic limbs glistened in the lamp-light.

"My watch?" asked Edward, pulling it from his pocket and handing it to Ra Chet.

The mechanical man turned the watch over with a spin of his wrist, "As I thought, it is the work of Professor Van Klees, I think this may aid us." He fiddled with the edge of the watch and it suddenly popped open like a surprised oyster shell, exposing a small grill, under which, was mounted a glistening pearl.

"You press the pearl to talk," Ra Chet instructed, holding the device out for Edward to take. "As I suspected, it contains a small  bright-energy inter-locution device. It will not have much power, you will need to make sure it is fully wound before you use it. Also Edward, please remember, the Guardians may over-hear any message you send."

"We will just have to take the risk and hope, the Valiant can get to us before the Guardians do, for Percy's sake," said Edward winding the watch. He paused, deep in thought for a moment then pressed the pearl.

"Ahoy, Ahoy, White Rose calling Copper Swallow. Urgent request transportation from Blackwater Castle, I repeat Blackwater castle." No reply came from the device and Edward snapped its brass cover closed again.

"I hope that worked," he said.

"I hope the Valiant gets here before the Guardians," said Carmine.

All the while Captain Legate had been sitting on a lower stair and while he looked tired and worn, his bare muscular shoulders hunched forward, his eyes inspected Ra Chet with a ferocious intensity.

"So Edward, tell me, who or what is this new acquaintance of yours?" asked the Captain, "He is a formidable warrior and either wears the most unusual armour I've ever seen, or is in fact made of metal."

"He is Ra Chet, a mechanical soldier from the Army of Lao Sun, formerly assigned to Lord Philip and now under my command," replied Edward.

"Well he's a good one to have at your side in a fight," said Legate, "You should have seen him. We were waiting by the car in the courtyard when half a dozen East India Company troops came running from the castle garrison and surrounded us. Telling us we were under arrest for aiding and abetting the Pretender, and trespass, and any number of other fool accusations. Well I wasn't about to let them take us and I raised my sword, as did Chesterton, and Lady Augustus here produced that rather dainty pistol of her's."

"So it looked like being a stand off, but a rather eager solider decided he would take us anyway and crossed swords with me. I don't think anyone had noticed our silent mechanical friend here, as he stood by the car, but the moment the soldiers attacked I heard a whirring and a clicking and seconds later four of the soldiers were lying dead around us. The other two took to their heels and we chased them all the way up here, where you witnessed their steely demise."

"It seem we are most lucky to have you amongst us Ra Chet," said Edward.

"Thank you," replied the mechanical man.

"Did you say he was from the legendary mechanical Army of Lao Sun?" asked Captain Legate.

"I believe so," replied Edward, "do you know of it?"

"well I never believed it existed of course, though rumours of it go back almost a hundred years. It's an old soldiers tale, told to extol the virtues of military organisation and as such I always thought it just a fanciful story, you know, a sort of soldiers bogeyman, if your not disciplined in battle, the Mechanical Army will defeat you. But I never believe for one moment that it really existed."

"Well I don't know if there is an entire army, but Ra Chet here is certainly real," responded Edward.

"My, my, you live and learn," said the Captain scratching his stubbly chin, "I bet the Guardians would love to get their hands on him."

"Talking of which," said Edward, suddenly a little concerned, "What has happened to Rob? Does he still hold Brother Sancticus?"

"I'll come with you," volunteered Captain Legate and the two of them left the others with the unconscious Percy.

They made their way back down the narrow stone passage and a few minutes later emerged through the secret bookcase in Vilners's room. In the flickering light they found Rob standing with his sword pointing casually at the Monk's throat while Brother Sancticus sat stiffly on the bed, seething with anger.

"This is no way to treat a man of God," he protested, his face livid with anger. Small speckles of foam spat from his mouth as he spoke. "I'm personal confessor to Lord Darkmere, I'm a holy man, a priest, a Brother of the Light of God, you can't treat me this way, you can't hold me."

"I'm afraid Lord Darkmere has rather gone and left you in it," said Edward, to the furious priest. "But I think the least we can do is offer you a ride, as it is our intention to catch him up anyway, it seems he forgot a few things in his haste, and we are keen to see he gets them, perhaps if you knew where he was bound?"

The priest glared malevolently at Edward, "do you take me for a fool boy? an Idiot? So easily taken in by your charm and easy words? I think not, you'll get no such information from me even if I knew it."

"I see you are his Brother, but not his keeper," said Captain Legate.

"What!" spat Brother Sancticus, "you would make light with me? you think this is all a joke? I will be missed by the Brotherhood, and no doubt when Vilners arrives at his destination he will alert the Brotherhood, and you will have the Guardians to content with, then you will pay."

"In the meantime Brother Sancticus, you have us to deal with," said Edward, then turning to Rob, "Keep him sat tight while the Captain and I look through Darkmere's papers, perhaps there is clue to his destination amongst them."

Edward and the Captain set to searching through Vilners's apartments. It was clear Vilners did not spend much time at the castle, there were few personal possessions, most of the papers  they found pertained to the castle's costs. The only real clue was what looked like a list of Darkmere's properties; an apartment in London, a farm in the British Free state of Huston,  plantations in India, the Caribbean and Malaysia, small holdings in Scotland and various properties scattered across the Empire.

"He could be headed for any of these," said Edward striking the paper with his finger.

"It narrows things down somewhat," said the Captain.

"But we could never investigate all of these in time," replied Edward.

"Perhaps we do not need to," replied the Captain. "We know he intends marrying Emily, I suggest he is unlikely to do this on a farm or plantation, it would not set the right kind of tone to such a proceeding. It's unlikely he will flee to Scotland as there, there would be a good chance of her successful rescue or, if she escaped his clutches, an easy return to England for her. I would think he is intending to take her to one of his other properties."

"Yes but still which one? there are five on the list," protested Edward throwing himself into Vilners chair and sinking his head in his hands.

"Maybe the Priest can tell us more, perhaps we can be more persuasive with him?" suggested Captain Legate.

"What do you mean?" asked Edward.

"I learnt a trick or two in the army to get information from a reluctant prisoner." said the Captain.

"Are you suggesting we torture it out of him?" said Edward.

"Breaking a couple of his fingers might loosen his tongue," said Legate.

"You have seen the man, under those priestly robes is the body of a soldier, I doubt a bit of pain is going to get him to talk. No, if we wish to get information from him we need to know his weakness and exploit it." said Edward.

"You are right, but what is his weakness?" replied Legate.

"Perhaps if we let him believe he has escaped he will lead us to Darkmere, or at least attempt to contact him." suggested Edward.

"It's an interesting plan but I think he will run for the nearest Monastery or Guardian Sanctuary."

"Very well, we must take him with us for now. Look the Valiant left us at Bristol so if she got our message she will be arriving here soon. We should move everyone to the tower ready to evacuate," said Edward.

They made their way back to the tower room with Rob keeping a keen eye and a sharp sword on Brother Sancticus's back. The priest was still fuming but kept his thoughts to himself. Edward made his way up the iron stairs to the observation lounge above the tower room and sat on the simple bench which ran around its wall and looked through the windows over the desolate moors. 

The wooden walls of the observation room rattled with the wind as light rain tapped on the west facing windows. Dawn broke slowly over the marshes, their black expanses turning first grey then to a dull mottled green, daubed here and there with brownish hues. In the far distance Edward could see a glint of clear open water. There was still no sign of the Valiant in a sky hung with large grey clouds.

Something in the marshes caught Edward's eye. Something was moving out there. He found a spy-glass which someone had handily left lying on the bench and began searching out the source of the movement. He didn't have to look for long, a line of men on horseback accompanied by a couple of dark carriages and a black steam-car were slowly weaving their way along the winding marsh road. The dark red uniform jackets of the horse riders told Edward these were Imperial Troops, and the black jackets of two men near the front of the column suggested they were Imperial Agents.

Edward scanned the skies once more for the elusive Valiant, before leaping down the stairs to tell the others.

"It looks like Vilners got a message out, Imperial Troops and Agents are approaching," he told them.

"How long have we got?" asked Legate.

"Not long, an hour at the most," replied Edward.

"If we raise the drawbridge and secure all the doors we might buy ourselves another hour," said the Captain.

"It wont do you any good, the Emperor's men approach and soon the tables will be turned," laughed Brother Sancticus.

"Do you want to shut him up or should I?" Carmine asked, smiling at the priest. Something in her eyes made the monk decide it would be better to keep his peace and took to silently glowering at his persecutors.

"Captain, you and Chesterton help me secure the castle," said Edward, heading for the door. They raced down spiral stone stairways and along the battlements quickly descending to the winch room where the drawbridge and portcullis were controlled. Edward and the Captain began turning the massive wooden wheel which wound huge chains around the vast spindle. From deep within the castle came a groan of machinery as enormous counterweights began to move in their wells. With a loud creaking and clanging the drawbridge began to rise and the portcullis moved lower and lower until, with a final crash, the castle gate was secured shut.

"It will not hold them for long if they've brought either cannon or grappling hook," cautioned Captain Legate. "We need to fortify the interior, hold them off at the base of the tower if we have to."

The next twenty minutes was spent securing all the interior doors as the three of them ran through the castle. Edward and Captain Legate were about to lock the door at the foot of the tower when Chesterton rushed up.

"Come on, we've been waiting for you," said Captain Legate.

"I've hidden our steam-car in one of the outbuildings in the courtyard," said Chesterton. "Hopefully we can retrieve it later."

"If the Valiant doesn't get here soon, it wont matter," said the Captain.

They secured the door and reinforced it by propping a large beam of wood against it.

"That should do it," said Chesterton.

"Let's hope so," retorted the Captain and all three climbed the final steps to the tower.

"Nothing to to now but wait I suppose," said Captain Legate.

Edward climbed up to the observation room to see how the Imperial Troops were progressing.
They had made steady progress and were now only a few minutes away. The slowly drifting clouds still refused to give up any sign of the Valiant to his eager eye.

As he watched the column of troops approached the edge of the moat and came to a halt. The black jackets and a couple of red jackets huddled together, obviously discussing their next move. It didn't take then long to decide. One of the red jackets began gesticulating at the main column of troops who formed up forty feet or so from the edge of the moat.

Four troops gathered round one of the carriages. They unloaded equipment and began assembling something. Edward's observations of the enemy were interrupted by a loud clang from the room below and he dashed down to see what was happening.

Captain Legate and Chesterton had wrenched two of the velvet curtains, rods and all, from their settings above the arrow slits. The noise Edward had heard was the rods falling to the cold stone floor. They quickly cut one of the curtains in half and slashed the trailing end into ribbons which Captain legate then tied round the rod from the second curtain fashioning them into a makeshift stretcher.

"We should move Percy up to the observation room," said Captain Legate, "We don't want him getting in the way if we need to fight in here. What's happening outside?"

Edward reported all he had seen.

"You should get back up there and continue to keep an eye on them," said Legate, "Chesterton and I will bring the boy up."

Edward nodded his assent and returned to the observation room. The troops were completing the machine assembly. Their activity lay far below him on the other side of the castle, and at that distance Edward was unable to make out what the purpose of the apparatus was. Of one thing he was sure though, it did not bode well for his small band. A groan came up the stairs which meant, Edward supposed, they were moving Percy onto the stretcher and as if to confirm this, a moment later, Captain Legate and Chesterton appeared up the stairs carefully carrying the boy between them. They placed the stretcher gently on the floor.

"What is happening? How many of them are there?" asked the Captain.

"Looks about thirty of them," replied Edward, "They are assembling some sort of device."

"Still no sign of the Valiant I see," said Legate looking at the overcast sky.

"I think they are ready," said Edward looking at the troops below who were wheeling the contraption towards the castle. They spent a few more moments adjusting the thing then stood back. Like a tiny tin soldier one of the red jackets lifted an arm, holding his sword out, and brought it down in a signal to fire the machine. Four lines of rope shot from the contraption and a moment later Edward heard four dull clunks of iron on stone. The ropes fell slack and the operators began coiling the ropes back in.

"Cannon grappling hooks," said Captain Legate, "I think Darkmere doesn't want to pay for a new door. It may take them a couple of tries before they get it right."

The device took fifteen minutes or so to be re-set and once again the officer signalled with his sword and once again the grappling hooks failed to reach the outer parapet.

"They are unlikely to miss a third time," said Legate, "I've seen these things before in India and South Africa, once they get the hooks over they will haul a climbing net across the moat and they'll be over the wall in seconds."

"We could cut the ropes," suggested Edward.

"We could try, but you see those troops stood further back from the rest? Sharpshooters, their job is to stop us doing precisely that," replied Legate. "I doubt even your mechanical friend could hack his way through thirty troops."

"There are five of us as well, each armed with both pistol and sword," said Edward, "how long do you think we can hold them off for?"

"Well the tower is a good defensive position, and we could hold off thirty of them pretty much indefinitely, but what good would it do us? They have us trapped here in the tower already and it will only be a matter of time before they either scale the tower walls or, bring in an airship of their own. Besides which, we have no supplies, we can last out here a day or two at the most."

"We could use the secret passageway and sneak passed them back down to Vilners apartments, perhaps we could escape from there," suggested Edward.

"It's a good idea," agreed Legate, "though we would have to leave Percy behind, and perhaps use Ra Chet to hold them off here as we make our escape. Lets say in the last desperate hour we might need to try it."

Edward agreed. The though of leaving Percy behind did not sit well with him. He had begun to think of this motley band of individuals as being his, as being the seed, the beginings of a new League of the White Rose.

The Imperial troops device fired for the third time and as predicted they successfully got the grappling hooks over the battlements. There was a further delay as the operators manipulated leavers and loaded a great net which was then winched up the ropes. It was clear the net would reach the parapet in a few short minutes. The sharpshooters stood firm their long weapons beaded on the castle wall ready to fire on the smallest movement.

The air in the observation room seemed to draw close and a dark shadow fell across the tower, which in the gloomy sky seemed almost to bring night again. Edward looked round the faces of his friends each returned a determined look.

Something about the descending darkness suddenly occurred to Edward. He opened the door and stepped out onto the parapet. There, hanging over the tower like a large black cloud was the Valiant, and even as he looked a rope-ladder unfurled from its gantry and fell at his feet. Above him a sailor called down, "Ahoy there."

"We have wounded, we need a winch," called Edward. The sailor waived and disappeared inside the Valiant. A moment later the winching mechanism was angled out over the side and began to lower a long woven basket.

"It's the Valiant, the Valiant has come," Edward called to the others. Get everyone here. Percy to go first."
Chapter 23 – Brotherhood of Light
Percy was winched aboard the airship and the cables lowered again for Ra Chet. Captain Legate took the rope-ladder and once he gained the gantry, Brother Santicus was made to follow. As the others climbed aboard Edward kept an eye on the Imperial troops' progress.

As he watched, troops swarmed up the netting, six at a time and soon all were assembled on the outer battlements. They split up into small groups which were dispatched to the corners of the castle. As Carmine took to the rope-ladder Edward heard the clang of the drawbridge opening, the troops had reached the winch-room and it would only be moments before they discovered the tower and its fleeing occupants. As if to emphasise this thought, Edward heard a banging from below, their hiding place had been discovered.

He heard the sound of  shots fired and wood splintering. Looking around he was the only one left on the parapet, Rob was just making the top of the ladder. Edward grabbed a rung and began climbing, as he did so he cried out, "Let her loose, get into cloud cover, they're coming."

The Valiant lifted and as it did so, swung Edward out over the great void below, with nothing beneath him except a long fall to a cold dank death in the marches below. A loud bang came from the direction of the tower, clearly they didn't mind destroying some of the inner doors. A plume of smoke streamed from the observation room quickly followed by the flash of red jackets.

As they floated away Edward could hear the men coughing and the distant, muffled sound of commands being shouted. He heard the crack of a rifle and then another, something whistled passed his ear. Suddenly he was enveloped in a cold damp cloak of cloud. He could no longer see or hear anything from the castle below, a ghostly silence surrounded him as he hung from the ladder rungs.

The cold began to eat into his muscles and he put extra vigour into his climb. Cold droplets formed in his hair and on his face, the wooden rungs of the ladder became wet and slippery, he griped even tighter with aching, frozen, fingers. He felt alone and almost as if he could step from the ladder and just float away wrapped in cold wet cloud. A hand shot down from above and grabbed his wrist, gripping him firmly, Captain Legate pulled him up on to the Valiant's gantry.

Edward was shivering as he pushed his way into the now decidedly cramped cabin. It was at least warmed by the number of bodies there. Percy was laid out on the map table while Rob held the priest in a corner. Edward stood, water dripping from his clothes.

"Here, wrap yourself in this," said Carmine, handing Edward a rough blanket. She helped him put it around his shoulders and began rubbing his arms to help put some life back into them.

"Th-th-th-thanks," shivered Edward.

As soon as he was warm enough though, Edward slipped from the cabin and made his way forward to the ship's bridge.

"Where are we bound?" he asked the Valiant's Captain.

"We are to dock with the Countess of Wetherby just off the cost of Spain in about five hours time Sir," replied the Captain.

It was not to be the comfiest journey Edward had spent aboard the Valiant. The close confines of the Valiant's only passenger cabin and Brother Sancticus's ill temper combined with a lack of sleep had everyone on edge, except Ra Chet, who stood patiently and silently, back against the wall. On the whole they all showed restraint and fortitude and despite his attitude, they all managed not to punch Brother Sancticus, who seemed to make it is mission to either convert or annoy them the entire journey.

Eventually their ordeal was over and in clear Atlantic skies a hundred mile out from the Spanish coast, the Valiant docked with the Countess of Wetherby. The weary band of adventurers gratefully disembarked and made their way to the apartments.

Despite his own tiredness Edward, however, could not rest until he knew if they had a lead on Darkmere. On the bridge, Captain Echart was at the wheel.

"Captain," greeted Edward.

"Good to see you are safe your Highness," replied Echart, "We were not sure about your message, we wondered if it was a trap."

"Lucky for us you took the risk," replied Edward. "Any news of Darkmere?"

"There is indeed your Highness. The Duke's agents have discovered Darkmere's airship, the Black Hawk, filed a shipping schedule with the London dock authorities just last night. Her stated intent is delivery of luxury goods to the Imperial airship port at Mangalore on the South East coast of India. We calculate they will reach port six hours ahead of us at least."

"You mean we are on our way there now?"

"Yes," replied Echart, "a bit of luck there actually your Highness, as we were already bound for Mangalore, with a cargo of cotton cloth and a new steam engine for the transcontinental railway."

"Are Professor Van Klees or my Uncle aboard?" asked Edward.

"Neither I'm afraid," replied Echart. "The Professor, who knows where he is? Your Uncle is in England on business and not due to come aboard until we return to England next week. You should get some rest your Highness. It is several days to Mangalore. I will keep you fully informed of our progress."

Edward thanked the Captain and made his way to his apartments. Someone had laid out a simple meal of cheese, bread and fruit and after a few bites of this simple fare an exhausted Edward lay down on the large bed and in a moment was fast asleep.

When he awoke he was unaware of how long he had slept for. He washed and dressed in a plain white shirt and britches before going in search of the others. Entering the gym, he found Rob and Captain Legate practising sword technique. At first they didn't notice him watching them. First one, then the other, parried and thrust, moving like dancers as they circled each other looking for a suitable weakness in the others' guard. Their swords clashed in a vigorous bout and taking advantage of a momentary loss of balance on Rob's part Captain Legate tripped him and in an instant had his sword point at the boy's throat.

 Edward, leaning against the wall, applauded the Captain's victory. "That's a rather nasty trick," said Edward as his friend climbed to his feet.

"Sword fighting may be sport for young gentlemen," replied the Captain, offering his hand to Rob, "but on the battlefield there is no room for fine gestures and fancies, it is life or death,  anything which gives you an advantage over your opponent should be used. How is it said? all is fair in love and war."

"Well old man," said Rob, "you give away your best moves, I think soon it will be me besting you with your own tactics."

"That is the general idea," laughed the Captain. "So Edward, how are you feeling today? Well rested I hope?"

"Rested and eager to catch Darkmere," replied Edward.

"We will have to exercise some patience there I fear," said the Captain, "We are stuck on this boat for a few days yet. Let us use this time to our advantage and improve our skills, will you take me on with your blade?"

Edward eagerly leapt to the sword rack and selecting a fine weapon. He took up his place facing Legate.  Edward fought well with a controlled energy giving the Captain a good fight until, seeing what he thought was an opening which would allow him to use the Captain's own technique against him Edward moved to trip the Captain, only to find himself flat on his back and the Captain laughing at him.

"Nice try my young prince, but the sword is a weapon that must be used with intelligence as well as vigour. Knowing you had seen my trick used against Rob I felt sure you would try to get me with it, and I used that knowledge to lure you into a trap." He held out his hand to help Edward back to his feet.

They continued their practice for a good hour, by which time they had all gained a good appetite and Edward returned to his rooms to change his shirt before re-joining the others. While brushing his hair in the dressing table looking-glass he noticed a small bookcase and a bureaux against the wall behind him. Feeling that a book might help him while away some of the time aboard he approached the bookcase.

At first glance none of the books took his fancy, but he picked one up anyway and flicked through its pages. Then he stopped, and turned to the first page again. Stuck to the inside front cover was a label which had printed on it the words 'this book belongs to..." below which sat a black box with little square motifs at each corner and in the middle a hand written name, Richard York.

The book had belonged to his father. His father had read the tale of Ivanhoe, his father had held this book. Edward began looking behind the covers of the other books and found several more that had been owned by his father. So his father had used these apartments. A thought occurred to him and he opened the bureaux lowering the front cover which became a writing desk. The little draws were full of the usual things, ink, feathers, crisp clean writing paper, envelopes, blotting paper and and blotting sand, paper clips and rubber bands, the usual things. In one draw he found a beautiful gold nibbed fountain pen, inlayed with pearl and bearing the initial R.Y. in gold on the cap. Edward wondered if the bureaux held any further secrets, after all, his father appeared to have had a liking for secret rooms and intriguing devices. Edward began to methodically prod and tug, he scrutinised every knot of wood, each spring and draw. Then he found it, a small metal rod hidden behind one of the draws, looking for all the world like a loose nail. Carefully Edward extended a finger into the hole recently occupied by the draw and wiggled the nail with his finger tip.

The nail moved upwards with a faint click. Edward again inspected the bureaux but found nothing. He was beginning to think that perhaps it had just been a loose nail, when he spotted a small rectangle sticking out of the side of the bureaux, where before ,there had been only smooth wood. He reached down the side and pulled at the rectangle which slid out to reveal a shallow draw and in the draw, lay a leather-bound notebook.

Edward carefully lifted the book from its resting place and took it over to a chair. The cover of simple leather was unmarked, a leather lace sewn into the spine tied the book tight shut. Edward drew the knot and opened the book.

There was no ex-libiris label this time. Each page was crammed with compact handwriting,  diagrams and illustrations, all painstakingly drawn with a draughtsman’s pen. The author remained anonymous, but given the nature of the notes, this was hardly surprising for the book seemed to hold proofs about the activities of the Guardians of the One Tree.

Edward was interrupted by a knock on his door, and Chesterton entered. "Everyone is taking a little repast in the observation lounge Sir, they thought perhaps you would care to join them?"

Edward tied the book closed and put it in his pocket, following Chesterton to the observation lounge, he intended to devote some time to the book at the next chance.

Over the following days Edward fell into an easy rhythm of morning exercise, light lunch and studying the book in the afternoons. Evenings were taken up with discussing various plans for rescuing Lady Emily.

Although the author of the little leather book had chosen to remain anonymous, Edward believed it to be the work of his father. The book was, by its nature, a notebook and therefore without order to its layout, however Edward was able to piece together some of the story it told.

The book claimed the Guardians had once been Templar Knights, until the end of the seventh Crusade. As Jerusalem fell to Abu al-Futuh the last few Templars fled, al-Futuh's men close at their heels. They escaped into the desert where they eventually evaded al-Futuh and there they wondered for many days and nights, their numbers growing fewer by the day as the desert took its toll on them.

By pure chance on their fifth day in the desert they came across a small monastery of just five Brothers of the Order of Light. Here they found food and water and one of the Brothers, a Cecil De Caran, found ready ears for his words. Brother De Caran, a zealot, had been studying texts reputed to have come from the great library at Alexandria, artefacts that had been saved from the flames at extreme risk.

In these books he claimed, lay great knowledge, powerful knowledge, wisdom too great for ordinary men to hold. De Caran persuaded the Templars that they had been sent across the desert by God, to help him guard this knowledge, that between them, the Order and the Knights alone should be allowed to wield such power, to hold such knowledge. So the Knights had a new mission, to seek out knowledge, to bring it back to the safety of the Monastery, and to destroy those who had possessed it.

Using ideas from the books and perhaps some creativity on the Brother's part, the Order created a number of items for the Guardians to use in their work. Of particular interest at the time was a tubular device which when filled with a magic powder could throw a small lead ball a great distance. With this and other murderous tools the Guardians, accompanied by two of the Brothers, one of whom was perhaps De Caran himself, left the Monastery and made their way, with many adventures, back to Europe where they founded a new Monastery and began to secretly recruit members.

The notebook was unclear as to the exact location of the European Monastery, though a short list of possibilities was given. Some of the notebook was unintelligible to Edward and appeared to be written in a strange language composed of symbols, letters and numbers all jumbled together. Many of the entries consisted of a note about someone, and a diagram or illustration with an explanation of their work. An early entry was about a man called Roger Bacon and referred to a book, the Epistola, which disappeared at the time of his unexpected death. This book, the note said had contained amongst other things, a recipe for the magic powder and an explanation of the nature of light.

There were more such entries with the names of men and women Edward had never heard of. One entry which caught his eye spoke of bright-energy and the suspicions surrounding the  deaths of a Frenchman called Voltaire, and a new world colonist, a B. Franklin, both of whom, according to the notebook, had been working on the phenomenon. This entry was accompanied by a diagram of something Edward recognised, something he had seen before, the bright-energy vessels, which the book called, Leyden jars, which powered the secret rooms under Apethorpe Manor.

Another device he recognised was the bright-energy inter-locution device which the note said had been discovered or invented by a Nikola Tesla and described its workings and general manufacture. There was no indication in the notebook as to how the author came to know these things, nor where the missing reference texts were, but it was clear that much of this knowledge had fallen into the hands of the Brotherhood.

The following day the airship approached Mangalore and began to loose hight until it floated a thousand feet above the azure blue Indian seas and the temperature in the cabins began to climb steadily to a tropical intensity.

Chesterton laid out a light linen suit and a straw boater which Edward found to be cool and airy to wear though his sword looked a little out of place. On his way to the observation lounge to assemble with the others he decided to look in at the Abbay room and pay the Countess a visit.

She was, as usual, humming quietly to herself, the eyes in her golden face closed. Ra Chet was there, standing silently to one side and it was easy to believe that they might somehow be communing in some secret machine way, or simply sleeping. As he approached the unbelievably intricate arraignment of cogs, rods, rockers, dampers and springs of which the Countess was composed, her eyes opened with a gentle click and she spoke.

"Edward York, it is good to see you again. I had hoped you would pay me a visit while you were aboard."

"How could I not Countess?" replied Edward.

"I have something you may need," said the Countess, as the sound of cogs turning and ticking came from behind her golden face. Several pieces of paper spooled from a printing slot on her control panel.

"These are travel documents I have devised for you, you may find them useful if the local authorities question you."

Edward picked up the papers and folding them carefully put them in his pocket.

"Thank you Countess," he said.

"I'm glad you brought Ra Chet, it has been some years since we last saw each other. There is something comforting I find about his company but you should both go now, we approach Mangalore and you still have a long journey ahead of you," with that she closed her eyes and returned to her quiet repose. At the same moment Ra Chet opened his.

"I am wound tight Edward, ready to serve," he said.

The two of them made their way along the richly carpeted corridor to the observation lounge where the others waited. Rob and Captain legate both wearing jodhpurs and riding boots with white cotton shirts. Carmine wore a typical English woman's outfit, long skirt, lacy blouse and a large brimmed straw hat with numerous dried flowers and the like tied round the rim with a bright blue ribbon.

Behind them stood the bright blue sea and golden sands of the Indian shore the Imperial port of Mangalore growing closer with every moment. A field of aerostatic towers stood at one end of the vast wooden docks, which stretched along the coast. Hundred of sea ships passed below, some steaming in or out of port, others anchored offshore awaiting a berth. Dockside cranes, from this height looking like child's toys, hoisted cargoes on and off the waiting vessels. The tiny figures of the dock workers with their dark skin and bright white shirts, busily moving about, here and there a cluster of red jacked men stood idly by watching the activity.

The Countess of Wetherby floated serenely over it all and came to rest at the largest tower on  Mangalore's airfield.
Chapter 24 – House of Wonders
"How is Percy?" Edward asked Carmine, while the group stood on the loading platform and along with several tons of cotton bales, were lowered to the ground.

"He's still very weak, but he will live," she replied.

The loading platform came to rest on the hard ground with a dull whumf, throwing up a cloud of dust as it did so, its riser chains falling slack. A gang of Porters with long wooden barrows, which they drew by hand, rushed across the dusty plain of towers towards them. Captain Legate shouted instructions at the leading man, who Edward took to be the gang-master, and a few minutes later, a little line of rickshaws came bouncing over the hard packed dirt towards the airship. They each mounted two to a rickshaw, except Ra Chet who, being too heavy to ride in a rickshaw, had a whole porter's barrow to himself.

Edward couldn't help passing a thought for the luckless porter who had the job of hauling Ra Chet, but when he looked at the massive man assigned to Ra Chet's transport, it appeared he relished the challenge. Certainly at no point during their ride through the crowded streets did Ra Chet's barrow fall behind.

As they drew close to the edge of the airfield an official in a stiff blue jacket that looked too hot and too tight for him signalled the rickshaws to halt.

"Your papers please," he asked holding out his hand.

Edward saw Captain Legate and Rob, who were riding together, exchange glances, but Edward stood up in his rickshaw and beckoned the official over with the papers the Countess had so recently made for him.

"What's all this about?" asked Edward as he handed the documents over.

"It's Imperial business," the official replied as he inspected the paperwork. "They've been very busy these last few days, I think they are looking for someone, but they tell us nothing," saying this he looked over at a small hut standing in the dust, next to which was parked a shiny steam car. A man in a long brown leather coat and fedora hat leant against the hut, his eyes hidden behind a pair of smoked glass spectacles.

"Well, your papers all seem in order, enjoy your stay in Mangalore and may it be profitable," the official handed the papers back to Edward and waived them on.

As they passed the hut Edward got the distinct feeling the mysterious agent was giving them a through inspection from behind his dark glasses. The feeling of being watched was one he couldn't throw as they joined the main throng of towns folk.

The streets of Mangalore were filled with bustling, jostling, people, dressed in all manner of colourful clothing. Dogs ran wild, while raggedy children followed the rickshaws calling and holding out their hands, palm up, at the passengers. The rich smells of spices, oils and exotic fruits, unfamiliar to Edward, filled his senses, as he was swept through the glorious parade of humanity, the raucous noise of street vendors, haggling, chit-chat and the rattle of the rickshaws making conversation almost impossible.

After a half hour ride through the thronging streets the group dismounted at the grand entrance to Mangalore Railway station, reputed to be one the largest and most magnificent on the entire sub-continent. Great iron columns held a roof of glassed arches over the stone floored station. The platforms stretched away endlessly under the smoky arches providing access to a variety of trains which continually arrived and departed from them, keeping the soot stained glass roofed arches constantly filled with clouds of smoke from their busy engines.

They mounted the long deep steps which stood at the front of the station's grandiose facarde and entered the cool shade of the station itself. The concourse was bustling with travellers, luggage and goods piled high on barrows, vendors selling food and drink, the smell of which wafted over the adventurers as they walked passed, tight collared station officials hurried this way and that, muscular engineers with large iron tools, shirts tied round their waists, tapped wheels and tightened bolts. Edward spotted more of the men in long brown coats and smoked glass spectacles, leant nonchalantly against a pillar here, or a ticket booth there, quietly watching the crowd.

They passed small engines, their boilers brightly painted, pulling flat bed trucks and dilapidated carriages, large dark sleek engines with wheels as high as man, long trains of goods vans and sturdy engines with passenger carriages hitched to them. At platform twenty three they found their train.

The engine was a modest size but had a sleek refined look, its boiler hidden under a swept back hood for improved aerodynamics. Efficient bursts of steam hissed from the pistons and between the gleaming wheels. Six elegant carriages stood behind the engine, doors open ready to receive their guests. The party climbed aboard the luxurious cars, which together, made a travelling home from home, complete with accommodation births, kitchen, lounge, and even a small workshop area. Edward found his apartment, almost an entire carriage, had a reception room, a four poster bed, and a bathroom with marble fittings.

The train made no delay in starting and moments after boarding began to draw gracefully from the station. Plumes of white smoke rose from a discreet hole at the front of the engine casing, pistons hissed and pumped and wheels turned smoothly. The platform slowly slid passed as Edward look back to see if anyone was interested in their departure, but it seemed they had avoided attracting attention.

Bright sunlight fell across the train as it left the cover of the station and crossed the field of tracks which ran through the marshalling yards, through the town and into the open countryside beyond. Soon the brightly painted dwellings of Mangalore and the heaving population they contained, fell behind, giving way at first, to open fields of the banana, tobacco, tea, cotton and opium plantations, then after an hour or so of the regular lines of agricultural crops, the landscape changed, the terrain became jagged and wild as the train entered jungle. Now night and day flickered through the carriages as they flashed under thick dark jungle canopy and out again into brightly lit clearings before plunging back into leafy tree lined tunnels.

Edward joined the others in the observation car to better view the passing scenery, it was the most exotic and exciting landscape he had ever seen. A samovar in the corner of the car happily bubbled away and Chesterton was dispensing small hot sweet cups of strong tea which they drank from glass cups in elegant silver holders, while sitting at single leg round tables they lounged on dark velvet upholstered chairs, carved so each depicted a crouching animal. Edward sat on what he though was a leopard or perhaps a jaguar, resting his tea on its head which served as the left arm of the chair.

"Looks like the Professor came through for us again," said Captain Legate taking a seat next to Edward. "I think this is part of your father's old India Express train, see the flower motif?" he pointed out the white roses discreetly moulded above the doors of each carriage.

Edward nodded, "Do we know how long it will take to get to wherever we are going?" he asked.

"We know Darkmere's train passed through here about twelve hours ago headed East. I've considered the list we found in Darkmere's study and it look very likely he is headed for Ashcantoor at Darabat, the Fortress of Eternal Shadow, so named because it is always in the shadow of the mountains there. It is very much Darkmere's territory, he has plantations and is the Regional Governor by Imperial appointment. There is a sizeable contingent of East India Company soldiers to protect his farms and because of continued trouble from a local warlord he has Imperial forces billeted at the fortress. The fortress is nigh on impregnable, we will have to us guile, not force, if we are to succeed in rescuing Lady Emily."

"Do you have a plan?" asked Edward.

Captain Legate grinned back at him, "I was rather hoping you had one lad," he replied.

"We'll think of something I'm sure," said Carmine, who had been listening to Legate with great interest, "We've still a way to travel yet."

They each fell to considering the apparently insurmountable problem of getting into the fortress. Edward entered an almost hypnotic revere induced by the flickering jungle light and the rhythmic chic-a-ta-chic of the train's wheels as it raced on towards the Fortress of Eternal Shadow. His mind was a jostle of sounds and smells and the sights of the last few hours and after a while he found himself dozing off into dreams of jungle beasts and dark eyed pursuers.

He was jolted into wakefulness by a change in the trains' rhythm, they were slowing down.

"What's going on?" he asked the carriage at large.

"We are coming to the border of Jashwan province, Darkmere's territory, and we need to take on fuel and water for the engine," Carmine said, without turning her attention from the window.

It was mid-afternoon and the intense midday heat was beginning to fade, though it was still sweltering in the open, while damp and humid in the shade. As the engine slowed the temperature in the carriages  rose and everyone became hot and damp. Edward found himself tugging at his shirt to unstick it from his back, Carmine found a Chinese fan from somewhere and  gently fanned warm air over herself. Rob slumped listlessly in his chair but both Legate and Chesterton seemed little affected by the heat though both looked somewhat more red in the face than usual.

"Now your really feeing India," said Captain Legate, "more tea for everyone I think Chesterton, and perhaps a little walk while our engine takes on water.

Chesterton barely had time to pass around the tea before the train eased itself into the small station at Jandaha. They all climbed down from the train onto the platform, which was nothing more than duck-boards laid along the front of a modest brick building which was Jandaha station itself.

Captain Legate lead them through the brick building and out onto the dirt road beyond, which led to the modest town which the station served. A soft breeze and the shade of the banana leaves helped clear everyone's head of carriage fug and in a few minutes they reached the outskirts of Jandaha itself. The main road ran passed between low brick and mud buildings, brightly painted and each with a small plot of land at the side or to the rear.

A large white banner had been strung across the street between two buildings. It hung lazily in the warm air, printed on it, in large clear lettering were the words "The Amazing Harry Topp's Travelling Fair" below which, in smaller lettering, was written, "Not to be missed, once seen never forgotten, only in town for a few days". As they read, brief strains of music from an enthusiastically cranked pipe organ came drifting down the road.

"Shall we see it?" asked Carmine.

"We might as well, now we are here," said Edward.

"It will be a while before the train is ready to depart," confirmed Captain Legate, so the small band of adventurers continued up the road to Harry Topp's Fair, which occupied a field on the edge of town.

The field had been transformed with colourful tents and jauntily painted caravans. A man walked by on stilts, wearing a tall top hat, narrow chequered trousers and jacket tails which were so long they trailed along the ground. A massive fat woman with a beard sat on the wooden steps of a red and green caravan while she stitched some voluminous garment. A girl in a silver bathing costume and spangled tights with two great white feathers in a silver hair band led a pair of ponies, each with their own headband of colourful feathers.

A juggler and several clowns came tumbling by, leaping and cavorting as they went and the smell of sweet sticky fried food wafted over. Then suddenly, from amongst the colourful jumble of tents, caravans and fair folk Edward saw something which made him stop.

Set back a little from the main thoroughfare was a modest sized, dilapidated looking, dirty white tent which had seen better days. There was little activity near it, but it drew Edward's attention anyway. A memory flickered through his mind and reaching into his pocket he fingered a piece of card he had been given some time ago. He pulled the card from his pocket, the corners now crumpled but the printed legend still bright and clear. A banner was stretched in front of the dirty white tent, dusty and worn in places. its wording hand painted in flourished red lettering read "Merryman's House of Wonders". Edward looked at the card in his hand it said "Merryman's House of Wonders, Admits one Adult. No refund".

"I have to visit that tent," Edward told the others.

"Why?" asked Carmine.

Edward showed her the ticket, "the Countess of Wetherby gave it to me, it must mean something." he said.

"Well it only admits one," Carmine said, "I suppose we will have to wait for you here."

With a nod Edward left his friends and walked towards the tent. A dilapidated booth protected the entrance to the tent and at first it appeared completely empty, Edward wondered if he should just go straight in when a voice said, "And where do you think your going, it's thruppence entry you know."

Edward looked around for the source of the voice. "I'm in the booth," the voice said wearily and a scraping sound and a banging came from the booth as a dwarf in a tartan waist coat clambered on to a stool and peered out at Edward.

"Sorry, I didn't see you there," said Edward. The dwarf grunted and held out his hand. Edward showed him the ticket. The dwarf took it without remark, looked at it back and front then reaching down below the window pulled out a paper punch and neatly clipped the ticket before handing it back to him.

"In you go then," said the dwarf and leaping off his stool promptly disappeared from Edward's view, though he could still hear him fussing about inside the booth.

Edward pushed open the dusty tent flaps and stepped inside. It was little cooler in the tent, which smelt of waxed canvas and dry grass and something else, something familiar, which Edward couldn't quite put his finger on. For no apparent reason, or perhaps to prevent the curious from peeking a look, there was a second flap of canvas to step through before entering the main area. Arranged around the sides of the tent was a haphazard collection of display cases and stands. The first one Edward came to, immediately by the entrance, was thin legged, glass topped display case, containing an odd collection of metal components, each labelled with a small card which said things like, "5' ¾ inch carriage clock cog from the court of Louis XVII 1790" and "Regulator ball part 18596 from the Tzar's Grand Engine, date unknown".

Next to this was a display case with what looked like pistols, though unlike any pistol Edward had ever seen. There were four of them, beautifully crafted, each with a deep blue grip inlaid with gold or silver, the gun metal barrels glinted blue black. On the top of each weapon was mounted a round ended tube, the purpose of which Edward could not imagine. The label read "Nineteenth Century Gauz Pistols originally made for Crown Prince Ferdinand Von Shlochburg of the Duchy of Neimhaven-Shloch, reputedly by the master craftsman Marcus De Witt.

Edward turned to the next exhibit which was a three quarter size figurine of a woman in a classic ballet pose, she stood, with her arms held over her head, on tip toe, her left leg held across her right. Her beautiful doll face, eyes closed, looked down at Edward's feet. He leant forward to read her label when suddenly she moved, causing Edward to leap back.

The mechanical dancer's head lifted, her eyes opened and she jerked into life. She began spinning on her leg, her arms came down to her waist and her left leg stretched out. With a considerable creaking and groaning from her mechanisms she pirouetted around and around, raising and lowering her arms and bending her leg repeating her moves every second turn.

After ten or so turns she ground once more to a halt, bowing her head and closing her eyes. A loud clapping of hands and a deep chuckle from behind, caused Edward to turn and strike a defensive pose. There in the centre of the bizarre collection of mechanical oddments stood a stout man with large flourished moustaches on his upper lip and tufts of wiry hair protruding from beneath a low green felt hat, his large belly threatened to pop the buttons from his gaudy red waist-coat which clashed with the yellow and blue checks of his trousers.

"Delightful, delightful," the man was saying, a look of joy on his face as Edward span around to face him. The man was clearly enraptured by his own exhibits, but upon seeing Edward, his expression changed rapidly to one of shock, then confusion. The blood rose in his face and he seemed to stager before catching himself.

"No, it can't be," he gasped, then getting a grip on himself he recovered his wits and said, "too young of course, just as I remember him, just like the old days," he now seemed to be having a conversation with himself, oblivious to Edward's presence despite it being the source of the old man's excitement.

"I'm sorry, I just need a quick sit down," the man said, resting himself on a nearby plinth which held what looked like a piece of armature assembly standing next to a life sized stuffed bear.

The man mopped at his forehead with a large yellow handkerchief which he produced from one of his pockets. "You will have to excuse me, I thought for a moment you were... someone else, only Mr. Murgatroyd said someone had a ticket, and it's been so long, I, well..." his words trailed off as he mopped his brow again.
Chapter 25 – Jungle Village
Edward waited patiently for the man to recover himself, which took yet more brow mopping and much mumbling.

"I'm sorry, do forgive my manners," he said eventually, "I should introduce myself, I'm Geangello Shanksworth Merryman, and this is my colleague Mr. Murgatroyd," he pointed behind Edward who turned to look.

Emerging from the base of the mechanical dancer was the dwarf who had been manning the booth. He tugged his waist-coat straight and gave Edward a curt bow.

"As you can see our dancer is nothing more than a Mechanical Turk artfully operated by Mr. Murgatroyd. In the old days we amazed audiences with dancing Mabel and Colonel Clonk over there," he indicated a soldier stood on a box on the other side of the room. "Of course we had a lot more in those days, quite kept our bellies flat eh Mr. Murgatroyd? But these two are all we have left now," Merryman said a note of sadness in his voice.

"Seeing me gave you quite a shock, I should apologise for that," said Edward.

"No no dear boy, quite the opposite, it is I who owe an apology to you. I must confess for a moment I thought I'd seen a ghost, I did, the ghost of an old friend, long dead now, but my how you're the spitting image of him, you are, when we were young and adventurous together. Those were the days eh Mr. Murgatroyd? When we were known as the Fixers, if the League needed anything it was Murgatroyd and Merryman who found it for them, what adventures we had racing across half the world, but those days are long gone," his face saddened as he said this.

"The ticket," said Mr. Murgatroyd gruffly.

"Ah, yes the ticket, most curious, may I enquire as to how you came about possession of such?" asked Merryman.

"I was given it, by the Countess of Wetherby." replied Edward.

"The Countess," chortled Merryman, "The Countess? Really the Countess, you have seen her?"

"I have."

"My, I bet she is a beauty, how we'd like to meet her, a masterful work of engineering she is indeed by all repute."

"So you see it is no coincidence I'm here," said Edward, "I believe now the Countess wants you to aid me."

"Us, help you? Our days of adventuring are over," cried Merryman, once again mopping at his brow, "I don't know of what use Mr. Murgatroyd and I can be now-a-days."

"Well for one thing, might you know the area? We are bound for the Fortress of Eternal Shadows."

"We know Darabat well enough eh? But the fortress, it's nigh on impregnable, I don't know how you might get inside its walls..."

A shot rang out and the sounds of muffled shouting and running footsteps interrupted Merryman. "What on Earth?" he exclaimed.

The three of them peered out of the tent to see what was happening. The fair folk had scattered, hiding in their caravans or fled into the nearby forest. Armed men on horseback rode up firing rifles into the air and encircling Edward's fellow adventurers. With at least twenty guns trained on them, the adventurers waited while a large man in a white turban dismounted his horse. Steadily pointing two large silver pistols at Captain Legate he strode towards them.

"What's this all about then?" Edward heard the Captain ask.

"You know Imperial Agents are not welcome here," the large Indian fellow bellowed, "We should shoot you all where you stand."

"We are not Imperial Agents," replied the Captain, "I would have thought that was obvious."

"And you are incapable of using disguise?" bellowed back the Indian leader, "If your not Agents of the Empire, then who are you and what do you want here?"

"We are headed for Ashcantoor and wish to pass peacefully through," replied Legate firmly.

"Ashcantoor? Then you are friends of that devil Darkmere, all the more reason for us to shoot you."

"Aschantoor may be our destination, but we are no friends of Darkmere," came the reply.

"If you are no friend of the Dark Count, how do you expect to be welcomed at his fortress gate?" the large man laughed at them. "Whoever you are and whatever your purpose you will have little luck. If we do not kill you, then Darkmere certainly will, no one goes south of the Lashak river who isn't either his soldier or his slave."

"Never-the-less, that is our intent," replied the Captain, his voice filled with resolve.

"Your sincerity impresses me, but I'm still not inclined to believe you," the large man replied.

"Who's that?" Edward asked Merryman in a horse whisper.

"That is Jahshalid Kahn, a local warlord. Nothing goes on around Jandaha without his knowledge and permission, he is the biggest thorn in Darkmere's side, but the warlords haven't been into Darabat province since the Groaning Devils appeared," Merryman whispered back.

"Is there anyway we can persuade him to help us?" asked Edward.

Merryman opened his mouth to reply just as an uproar rose from the men outside.

Jahshalid had been circling Captain Legate, his silver pistols firmly fixed on the Captain's heart but now, seeing her chance, Carmine stepped forward and took the large man from behind. Digging a toe into the back of his leg he fell on one knee and she was upon him in an instant, her knife gleaming as she pressed into his throat.

"Tell your men to throw down their weapons," she hissed.

A look of shock had crossed Jahshalid's face when Carmine first brought him down, but now he laughed, a deep bellowing roar, and nodded to his men to do as Carmine said.

"And what do you intend to do now?" Jahshalid asked, "if you kill me there will be nothing to stop my men from killing you, and if you don't, I will hunt you down and kill you."

"You know young Edward," Merryman said, "it occurs to me that the enemy of my enemy is my friend, and now you have the upper hand, perhaps you can negotiate."

"Then it is time we joined the party," said Edward as he stepped from the tent.

He strode across the dusty ground towards the circle of mounted men and the tableau at their centre, Merryman and Mr. Murgatroyd at his heels.

"Now just who the devil are you?" Captain Legate asked Jahshalid.

"Jahshalid Kahn, mighty warlord of Jandaha," Edward said, as he stepped into the circle, "and I am Edward York also known as Edward Infante and Edward Pretender, leader of the League of the White Rose."

Behind him he heard Merryman draw a sharp intake of breath at this.

Jahshalid laughed, "So you are the boy they are looking for, and his friends, well perhaps we are not enemies after all."

"And who is to say that you are not in league with the Imperial Agents?" asked Edward.

"I think it is time for trust boy," Jahshalid said, "you will not get far without mine, and it would appear that I will not live long without yours."

"Very well," Edward said after a moments thought, "Carmine, if you be so good as to let Mr. Kahn gain his feet."

Carmine released him and stepped back. Edward held out a hand to the man who took it but didn't rise, instead he flipped Edward over onto his back and quick as a flash was standing over him laughing.

Carmine sprang forward her lethal knife held out before her in an assassin's grip, but Edward shook his head at her. Jahshalid now reached down to Edward offering him a hand.

Edward dusted off his jacket while smiling at Jahshalid. "Well now that is all sorted out, perhaps we can plan how we are to get into Ashkantoor," he said.

"Well my impatient friend, there is much we need to discuss before you go rushing into the mouth of the beast. You should bring your locomotive to our camp and we can discuss just how foolish this plan of yours really is."

Returning to Jandaha station the adventurers found their train ready to leave and they climbed aboard accompanied by Jahshalid , Merryman and Mr. Myrgatroyd. As the train moved off Jahshalid's men rode along side through the shady forest.

Several miles down the track Jahshalid's men switched points and the train set off down a branch line leading into thick jungle. Several miles further into the jungle the train came to a halt in a large clearing. The clearing appeared empty at first, but on closer inspection Edward spotted cleverly hidden hideouts in the trees and low huts made from jungle brush which blended completely with their surroundings.

"Welcome to my village. You will come and eat with us," Jahshalid announced, "and I will persuade you to give up your foolish plan and to return to where you belong."

As the sun set, village fires began burning. Soon the delicious smell of jungle fruits and meats being roasted on open fires filled the clearing, and Edward and his friends were invited to sit with Jahshalid, as he presided over the feast, with Edward sat to his right and Shawana, Jahshalid's beautiful young daughter, to his left.

With a wave of his hand the eating and dancing began. Jungle tom-toms beat out a rhythm while melody came from long necked multi-stringed instruments and flutes. The young women of the village danced, Shawana leading them, long veils of silken cloth flowed over their supple limbs as they turned and gyrated to the exotic music.

"My daughter, do you not think she is beautiful?" Jahshalid asked, as they watched the dancing. Edward agreed.

After the dancing Shawana came over laughing and excited, she threw herself down on the blankets next to Edward, her fine bracelets of tiny trinkets tinkling as she moved. She picked up a wooden bowl filled with cherries and began eating them.

"So father, you haven't introduced me to this hansom young adventurer which you brought to our village," Shawana said to her father, her voice light and melodic, her accent distinctly English.

"This is Edward, but do not get to attached to him my daughter, for he is young and foolish and will most likely be dead before the moon rises again," said her father.

"Can I not persuade you from going into Ashcantoor?" asked Shawana, gazing at him with her large brown eyes.

"I have made a promise and I must keep it, much though, now I have met you, I wish I had not," replied Edward.

They were interrupted by Carmine. "While you have been enjoying the local pleasures," she said giving Shawana a hard look, "we have been discussing things and I think Mr. Merryman has a plan."

"If you will excuse me," Edward said to Shawana, who pouted sulkily at him before letting him go.

"If you must," she said.

"Perhaps I should hear this plan also," said Jahshalid.

Mr. Merryman, Mr. Murgatroyd and Captain Legate were sat in hut set a little back from the main village and were talking earnestly over a bottle of the local brew when Edward, Carmine and Jahshalid entered, ducking their heads under the low roof.

"Carmine tells me you have a plan Mr. Merryman," said Edward.

"Call me Gene, dear boy, all my friends do, and yes, I have a plan, of sorts," replied Merryman.

"Years ago Ashcantoor belonged to a local Prince. Then the East India Company arrived under the command of Marshal Storman and they took Ashcantoor after many weeks of siege. Now the strange thing is, though the Prince and his family were in Ashcantoor when it fell, they were never found or captured. It therefore follows dear boy, there must be another way in to the fortress, now if we could only find the secret entrance, we would be half way home, so to speak."

"And I know just where it is," said Jahshalid. "I remember fleeing through the tunnels at Ashcantoor when I was a boy."

"You are the Prince of Ashcantoor?" said Merryman in amazement.

"There is but one problem," replied Jahshalid. "The devil Darkmere has built a factory over the secret entrance."

"But that could be to our advantage," said Merryman.

"And how would that be?" asked Jahshalid.

"We can ride the train right into the factory, and from there used the tunnels," said Merryman. "Don't you see? Hopefully they will think its just another delivery train and we can drive right in."

"It is risky, very risky," replied Jahshalid, "but it just might work."

"Does anyone else have a plan?" asked Edward, looking round the silent faces. "Then it is the best plan we have."

"There will a lot of work for us tomorrow," said Captain Legate, "We should get some sleep and prepare for what is ahead."

The adventurers retired to the carriages on the train and soon the village fell quiet, only the hoots and barks of wild animals in the jungle night broke the silence.

The following morning everyone was up early. Captain Legate and Gene Merryman were talking about how they were to disguise the train.

"We put boarding along the sides of the carriages to make them look like goods wagons," Merryman was saying.

"And paint the engine to make it look older and more beaten up," suggested the Captain.

Murgatroyd leapt down from the observation car and made his way over.

"They are there Mr. Merryman," said Murgatroyd.

"Excellent news. When Mr. Murgatroyd and I were last on this train the observation car was armed with six inch repeater gauss guns, and apparently it still is. Are they in working order Mr. Murgatroyd?"

Murgatroyd grunted, "They'll need testing."

"Very well, we have our tasks, shall we to them?" said Merryman, enthusiastically rolling up his shirt sleeves.

Soon the clearing was filled with the sound of hammering and sawing, and the shouts of men who are coordinating great works, as everyone set about transforming the train.

At lunch time Shawana and a group of girls from the village came to the train with bread and fruits and cool water poured from tall earthenware jars. Shawana held out a brightly decorated cup for Edward to drink from, the over filled vessel splashing clear water over the her fingers as she did so. Edward drank deeply from the cup and when finished she gave him a large juicy peach and bit into another one herself, holding his eye as she licked the dripping juices from her hand.

Edward leaned back and admired their morning's work. With wooden planks nailed up the sides the train looked passably like a goods train. Two short gauss guns muzzles protruded a short way out from the boarded up side of the observation car.

"We are going to test the guns," shouted Merryman.

A good head of steam was built up in the engine, necessary to provide the pressure to powered the weapons. Aboard the train Mr. Murgatroyd positioned himself behind one of the guns. He swivelled it on its three way gantry and took careful aim out into the jungle. He squeezed the trigger and steam screamed from a pressure value, a dull rattle came from an ammunition hopper mounted on top of the gun.

The jungle filled with the sound of hissing bullets, leaves and branches danced and cracked as small steel balls tore through the undergrowth. After a few seconds burst the gun fell silent again. Torn bits of leaf gently floated to the jungle floor, a small tree groaned as it fell to the ground.

"Well they still work Mr. Murgatroyd," said Merryman in a business like tone, "and very effectively so."

As dusk fell they assembled on the train ready for the mission ahead. It was agreed Captain Legate and Chesterton would drive the engine, while Jahshalid's men rode in the accommodation cars, ready to jump out when the order was given.

As the train slowly backed up the line to the points Edward noticed Carmine wearing the same leather assassins' outfit she had worn when they first met on that windy tower in Huston State. The soft black leather clung to her body like a glove while her eyes remained hidden in the shadows of her hood. The carriage filled with a quiet tension, everyone calm, everyone poised and at the ready.

The train came onto the points where the jungle track met the mainline, and once Jahshalid's men had switched them the train moved forward, toward Ashcantoor. They picked up speed and few minutes latter heard the sounds of the Lashak bridge passing beneath them as they entered Darabat Province.
Chapter 26 – Fortress of Shadow
The white rose train rattled on through the jungle, its occupants staring keenly out at passing foliage ready for the first sign of trouble. After sever miles of heavily wooded jungle the trees began to thin out and the train slowed down. The track began a long slow climb up the mountainous foothills towards Ashcantoor. The rays of the setting sun gave the mountains an alien orange hue and there, a stark black silhouette against the mountain side, the Fortress of Eternal Shadow itself.

The main part of the fortress was box shaped, its battlements like small square teeth along its upper parts, and the whole thing was flanked by two similar though smaller box like structures. Three stark rectangular towers completed its outline and only the onion shaped dome in the centre of the main fortress broke the otherwise regular, uniform, lines of its imposing structure. To Edward it looked more like a prison than a castle.

The train tracks now passed through cultivated land, on one side the forest had been logged, piles of stripped trunks lay waiting to be hauled, and on the other side a long strip of earth torn bare where a strip mine left a raw dark pit in the landscape. At the edge of the remaining jungle, beyond the piles of logs Edward thought he caught a glimpse of movement. Something large, moving awkwardly through the tree line, but it was impossible to make out any details of what it was he had seen, if anything.

The tracks fanned out branching into more lines, all leading to the marshalling yards. The train slowed down and several times came to a complete halt as Captain Legate or Chesterton jumped down and checked the points, but still no challenge came from Darkmere's men.

The train stopped a third time, and was just getting under-way again when the passengers were thrown violently forward as the breaks were suddenly applied. The wheels gave a tortured screech as they span backwards, fighting against the momentum of the train, until the carriages came, at last, to a juddering halt.

Picking himself up from the floor of the carriage Edward ran to the front and opened the connecting door, which led to the tender wagon. He jumped from the observation car doorway to the tender and climbed the short ladder onto the roof, from where he could see up ahead, and if necessary, shout to Captain Legate and Chesterton. Something was blocking their way, a large dark object with hard square edges standing about the same height as the engine itself.

"What is it?" called Edward.

"No idea, but it's blocking the way," came the reply.

Edward ran across the tender roof, jumped down into the driver's compartment and stuck his head out of the window.

"What happened? How did it get there?" he asked.

"It came out of nowhere," replied Captain Legate, "it seemed to be walking across the lines, we only just spotted it, and as it began crossing the line we are on, it stopped suddenly, and, well, there it is."

A low groan of metal on metal could be heard over the slow hiss of steam which came from the engine's valves. Edward looked out again, the obstruction looked like it was rocking back and forth, more metal screeching came from its direction, then it moved off on what looked like four massive legs. The metal beast continued on its way across the tracks and into the forest beyond. Even out of sight, it could still be heard, creaking and clanking its way through the trees.

"Our groaning devils do you think?" asked Captain Legate.

"Could be," agreed Edward. "Either way, we had better keep a sharp eye out, who knows what surprises are in store for us here."

In the glow of the boiler fire Edward watched as Chesterton eased off the brakes and vented pressure into the pistons and the train eased forward continuing on its journey. Just a short way further up the line the track split from the marshalling yard and headed for the factory, a low lying brick building with a saw tooth shed roof and tower stacks reaching into the sky. The train rolled into the factory yard and stopped alongside a loading platform.

"We seem to have come at the right time of day," said Edward, "everyone's off having their supper."

"That, or it is a trap," replied Legate.

"Hey, hey," Edward heard a shout from the platform and a brown faced, turbaned head, appeared at the driver's window.

"You can't unload now, you need to return to the marshalling yards for the night," the night guard said through the window. "You must go now, yes, yes."

"Now look here my good fellow," captain Legate said opening the driver's door and climbing out, causing the guard to turn and find the point of Captain Legate's blade at his throat.

"Just keep the noise down and no harm will come of you," Legate advised the man.

Jahshalad jumped down from the observation car and walked towards the front of the train a couple of his men in behind him.

"Get these doors open," he ordered and his men disappeared through a guards entrance and a moment later a loading bay door was rolled open, sliding out of the way on hidden rails.

"My men will set up a perimeter here in the factory to cover your escape, while I show you the entrance to the secret tunnels," said Jahshalad.

Jahshalad's men took up ready positions around the platform and packing crates as Jahshalad led the adventurers deep into the factory. At the end of the platform they entered the factory proper. Long lines of conveyor chains mounted on the ceiling ran the length of the sheds. From the chains hung wooden platforms or pieces of equipment. Some of the chain lines looped back up the same shed, while others disappeared through holes in the walls.

"Something not right," said Merryman, as they crept through the first shed.

"You are right there," replied Captain Legate, "it's far too quiet for a start."

"That's not what I meant dear chap. I was thinking that these chain lines, they should have produce on them, from the plantations, not metal components such as these," he picked an object off the nearest platform and turn it over in his hand, "Looks like part of a piston mechanism," he remarked.

"There wasn't much sign of agriculture on the way," said Edward, "looked like logging and mining."

"They are making something here, some kind of machine," concluded Merryman as they came to the end of the shed and Jahshalad, turning left, began to walk along the back wall of the factory leading them through shed after shed.

They moved in silence until, eventually, Jahshalad raised his hand. "It must be in either this shed or the next," he said.

"What are we looking for?" asked Rob.

"I don't know, anything that looks like a possible door or entrance," replied Edward.

They began hunting around, moving crates and boxes.

"It might be behind the back wall," suggested Rob.

"No," replied Jahshalid, "see how the lower foot or so of the wall is bare rock, not brick like the rest of the building, behind is only mountain."

Edward and Rob set to moving a stack of wooden crates away from the wall quickly stacking them off to the side in a crude pile. As they lifted the fifteenth or sixteenth crate onto their decidedly crooked pile it shifted an earlier crate which teetered then fell to the floor smashing open and spilling its contents of clay sticks across the floor.

"Be careful there," cried Merryman, picking up a clay stick, "see these letters? T.N.T. printed on the side, this stuff is dynamite."

"Well we have cleared the wall enough to see there is no entrance behind this stack of crates," said Edward. No one else had found anything like an entrance either so they moved on to the next room and continued their search.

Almost immediately Rob spotted a large iron plate set in the floor. It was bolted down so they searched around for tools to unbolt it or pry it loose.

Suddenly a loud roar  ripped apart the quiet of the sheds, the screaming of escaping steam and the groan of metal as a giant iron fist smashed through a wall throwing bricks in all directions. A second fist, then a third, came smashing through and a huge metal monstrosity came crashing into the shed, bricks showering from its back like water off a dog. Through the brick dust and the gloom Edward could see the machine's furnace glowing redly. The thing had a body but no head, at its front the iron teeth of its furnace grill glowed and grinned menacingly at the adventurers. It had four legs, two on either side, but these ended in fist shaped pincers instead of feet. It was large and unwieldy, its movements clumsy and dangerous.

Another screech of steam came from the sides of the frightening engine as it flexed its leg joints and came lumbering down the shed towards the adventurers crushing everything under foot as it moved. The top of its chassis scrapped the chain line fixtures from their roof joists tipping platforms and spilling their contents across the shed. The chains fell onto the machine, but this necklace of iron didn't stop it, it tore through the chains as if made of paper.

"This plate is not budging," shouted Captain Legate as the metal monstrosity was upon him, it's red hot belly glowering at him like an evil eye.

Edward took a few steps back and tripped over some boxes. He lay on the floor gathering his wits a moment, before levering himself into a sitting position. Some of the wooden boxes has split open spilling their contents around him, what at first appeared to be fist sized washers, but the ones which fell on their edges began to roll towards each other and as they came close, leapt together sticking one to the other. Rubbing his head, an idea began to form in Edward's mind.

He leapt up and grabbing a couple of the oversized washers he ran back to the shed they last passed through. He grabbed three sticks of dynamite and pushed them into the hole in the centre of the washers, jamming them in hard, then he ran back. The machine monster had crashed into the mountain wall end of the shed and was turning round in an awkward lumbering way. As it completed its turn, exposing its fiery belly, Edward ran and threw the washer mine at the beast's glowing furnace. The mine stuck to the grills with a resounding clang.

"Down, everyone down," shouted Edward, throwing himself behind a pile of rubble. He heard the machine take a step, then another, the hiss of its pistons and then, a deafening roar. His ears rang. Looking over the rubble he saw the machine, its front ripped off by the blast, bleeding red hot coals from the wound in its belly, a front limb ripped off below the joint. A rear leg moved, stepping forward, then it trembled, juddering violently, vibrating and venting steam as the mass of iron slowly toppled over, a final screech of steam as a leg thrashed wildly before falling still.

Picking himself up Edward shouted, "Everyone all right?" though he could barely hear himself over the ringing in his ears. Figures began emerging from their hiding places, covered in dust and oil it was difficult to tell who was who.

As the dust settled they saw where the iron floor plate had been, there was now a dark hole surrounded by bits of twisted metal.

"Looks like the exploding machine has ripped the plate open for us," said Rob.

Edward looked into the dark hole. He could see steps leading away into the black depths.

"We need something to light our way," said Edward. Just then the silent figure of Ra Chet walked passed him and down the steps. As Ra Chet descended, his eyes began to glow so brightly they threw two beams of light out in front of him.

"Looks like we don't need a lamp," remarked Merryman with a chuckle, as he followed Edward and Ra Chet down the steps, "Seems to me your friend here IS a lamp."

They entered a series of long dank tunnels carved from the very mountain rock itself. Some of the tunnels were natural, tall narrow slits in the rock carved  by water's passage a millennia ago, in other places man had cut through, these sections of tunnel had low rounded ceilings and the marks of the digging tools still visible in the cold hard rock. The tunnel sloped always upwards, sometimes they came to a larger cavern, and several times they passed places where the tunnel split in several directions.

"It is said that in the old days these tunnels were made by a Prince who wanted to see a maid from the local village," said Jahashalid as they walked through the dark corridors, "His father would not allow it, she was a peasant and he was a Prince. Legend has it that the Prince spent ten years secretly creating these tunnels until one day, finally, he was able to visit his young love in secret."

"So what happened?" asked Rob, "did they marry in the end?"

"Ah, if only it had been so, but legend tells, one day his father caught them and had the girl executed. The Prince never forgave his father and when the old man died and the Prince became the ruler of the fortress he had every sign of his father's existence eradicated from the region and as a final act to remove all evidence of his father, he killed himself. But it is only a story, who really knows?"

Eventually the tunnel ended at an iron bound, solid looking, wooden door. Through a small iron grate, set high in the door, Edward could see piles of crates stacked against the other side.

"Don't think we can open it, it is blocked on the other side," he said.

"No, look at the hinges dear boy," said Merryman, indicating heavy iron bonds which sat on large iron pegs, "this door opens towards us."

Captain Legate grabbed the iron ring that served as a door handle and pulled at it, after a moments unsuccessful heaving and tugging he said, "it must be barred from the other side."

"Not a problem old chap," said Merryman, "if we can cut through these hinge pins we can get it open."

"Except we have nothing to cut with," remarked Carmine.

"Ah, but we do," replied Merryman, and rummaging through the many pockets he had in his coat he produced a small metal file. "It will however," he said, "take some time to do I'm afraid," and with that set to filing through the thick iron pegs.

For the next hour they took turns working the impossibly small tool against the cold hard iron, but slowly, bit by bit, a thin gap was ground through, until, eventually, the pegs were almost completely worn.

Captain Legate passed his cape around the bars of the small grill making a good enough rope for him, Rob and Edward to pull on. The Pegs bent a little, then held. They tugged harder, jerking the cloak and with a mighty crack the door came off its hinges. More pulling and the door ground open a foot or so, the bar on its inner face now serving as a crude hinge.

"Right, now we need to move these boxes out of our way," declared Edward, "If we form a chain gang it should go quickly enough."

A few minutes of heaving wooden crates and they had remove enough to pass into the room beyond.

Whatever purpose it had had in the past, the room was now a store room, stacked floor to ceiling with crates. The exit, another solid wooden door.

Edward sat on a crate, "not another hour of sawing," he said despondently.

"Maybe there's something in these crates we can use?" suggested Rob.

"It is a pity you did not bring any more of that dynamite you used so successfully against the metal beast," said the Captain.

"Not to worry," said Merryman cheerfully, "this door is locked, not bolted, Mr. Murgatroyd, if you would be so very good."

"Mr. Merryman," replied Murgatroyd with a curt nod of his head. He took a leather case from his inside jacket pocket and opened it with air of a magician holding a holy relic and reverently took two slivers of grey metal from the case. He smoothed his moustaches, cracked his knuckles and approached the door. Captain Legate helpfully slid a crate over for Murgatroyd to stand on the better to help him to reach the lock. Murgatroyd stepped up, inserted the lock-picks and after a moments fiddling produced a dull clunk indicating the job was done, he pushed the door and it swung gently open.

"This is the main corridor for this level," explained Jahshalid. "The floor below us are the dungeons, perhaps Lady Emily is there?"

"Unlikely," said Edward, "Darkmere intends marrying her, and I don't suppose he keeps his fiancé in a dungeon. I would think he holds her somewhere more luxurious, more in keeping with the wife of the local landowner."

"In that case, it is most likely he has her in one of the towers," replied Jahshalid. I shall lead you there, then I must return to my men. This floor and the next are storage rooms, and the floor above is the servants quarters, the Fortress of Eternal Shadow has many floors."

"It's still far to quiet for my liking," said Captain Legate, "it is making me feel uneasy."

"You would feel better if we had to fight our way?" asked Jahshalid. The Captain shrugged, "probably."

At the end of the corridor stone steps led up to the floor above, and down to the dungeons below.

"We must be very careful here," Jahshalid warned, "These stairways are in constant use, we could be discovered at any moment. Let us move with great haste and little sound."
chapter 27 – A Lady Rescued
They climbed several flights of stairs before Jahshalid ushered them through a door and into a large ornately decorated chamber. Magnificent marble pillars ran in rows along each side of the room, the floor made from marble so highly polished they could see their reflections in it. Through arched windows placed high up in the walls, the sound of fighting could be heard coming from the fortress courtyard some floors below.

"I can not take you any further," said Jahshalid, "my men need me and the fighting sounds fierce."

"We are grateful for your help this far," Edward replied.

"The way to the towers is on the floor above, just through the far doors and up the stairs," replied Jahshalid indicating tall ornate doors at the far end of the room.

"I should think we have your men to thank for the ease which we have come this far," said Captain Legate, "it looks like they are keeping Darkmere's men occupied."

"Not all of them," a familiar voice rang across the chamber as the doors swung open and Darkmere himself swept in to the room, his long black cloak flowing behind him.

"Lord Darkmere, what an unpleasant surprise," said Lady Carmine.

"Now now my Dear," replied Darkmere, "it should hardly be a surprise to find a man in his own house, besides which, didn't YOU follow ME here?"

"We came to get Lady Emily, we know you have taken her by force," said Carmine.

"Your endearment to your old school chum does you credit, but I shudder to think what the Emperor will have to say about your current company, such a shame, you were a most promising Agent, really one of the best we had, but now you wont even get to be a bridesmaid."

Carmine drew her knife and stepped forward. 

 "Before you get any ideas, I have a little surprise for you," Darkmere flicked his hand and a squad of Imperial troops entered the room and took up position. They were formidable in black uniforms trimmed with golden braid, thigh high leather riding boots and silver helmets which gleamed in the gas-light. Each carried a sabre at the waist and a revolver on the hip.

"I think your adventure ends here my young Pretender," said Darkmere, turning his attention to Edward, "I'm sure your Uncle and your brother will reward me for ridding them of such a troublesome thorn, and as a bonus you have kindly brought the nefarious warlord Jahshalid and his men to the slaughter, a double victory I'm sure you'll agree."

"So you acknowledge that I'm the Infante," said Edward, "as you say, my Uncle will be pleased with you."

A frown passed over Darkmere's face. "Yes, well, a figure of speech Pretender."

"Then I'm sure the Emperor will be rewarding everyone who has rid him of a Pretender this week, I don't suppose the reward for yet another will be so bountiful as you imagine."

"Well we could stand here all day discussing this, or I could just order my men to kill you."

"I offer you the opportunity to hand over the Lady Emily now, and we will leave," said Edward, "but I am betting you want to do this the hard way."

"You will never rescue Lady Emily and you will never take the throne of England," replied Darkmere, beginning to loose his temper. "you will die right here in this room and tomorrow I shall wed Lady Emily on this spot, knowing only hours before the ceremony your blood stained the stones, and by then, even that sign of you will have been washed away forever. You are a jumped up orphan, some rag child, lucky enough to carry but a passing resemblance to the last Emperor, this chance likeness will not take you far, indeed at the moment it is more a curse than a gift. In the unlikely event you leave this room with your life, you will still be hunted, hounded, relentlessly pursued until you are once and for all dispatched."

"I have wasted enough time on a shrimp like you and your motley crew of misfits. Much as I have enjoyed our little chat I need to lead my men against the outlaws at the gates below so I bid you all a farewell," Darkmere bowed then turned on his heels, "Kill them," he ordered as he swept out of the room.

Twenty hands went to their hips as the Imperial troops drew their weapons.

"Take cover behind the pillars," shouted Captain Legate getting a shot off as he dived behind the nearest marble column, an Imperial trooper felled with his unerring shot.

A moment later the chamber was filled with the sound of gun fire as Imperial troops opened fire on the adventurers.

Edward peered round the side of the pillar he, Rob and Carmine were crouched behind. Imperial troops were advancing down the room. Edward fired a couple of shots at them, and more shots came from the Captain's pillar.

"We will not last long here," remarked Carmine calmly checking the rounds in her revolver as another volley of shots came from the other end of the room.

"If we can keep them pinned down for a while they will use all their ammunition," Rob pointed out, "then we can engage them with the blade."

"A fine thought," replied Carmine, "but we are likely to run out of ammunition before them, and even then, they out number us four to one."

A strange scrapping noise came from across the room, Edward couldn't quite see the cause of it, but it seemed to come from the direction of the pillar shielding Ra Chet and Merryman. Suddenly shouts of terror followed by a volley of shots came from the Imperial troops. Edward risked peeking out.

The troops attention was drawn to one side, no longer interested in advancing down the room something had distracted them. Using the moment, Edward cried for the attack and leading the others ran at the troops firing his weapon as he went. Joined by the others several troops fell to their guns as they ran.

Gaining the end of the room Edward saw what distracted them. A whirring spinning mass of brass and steel, two vicious blades extending from his arms, Ra Chet efficiently dispatched one soldier after the next as they fired round after round at him. His blades flicked up and down, the closest soldier's head cleaved cleanly from her shoulders, the next with a blade in his guts.

The final few, seeing they were surrounded and without hope, gave ground and ran off leaving their fallen comrades to their fate.

"We must move quickly," cried Captain Legate, "they will soon return with reinforcements."

"I must to my men," said Jahshalid wiping blood from his sword on the jacket of a dead soldier, and with that he ran from the room in pursuit of the fleeing troops.

Moments later the rest of the adventurers followed him through the doors and up the wide staircase to the battlements above. Now they saw the fighting in the courtyard below. At the foot of the fortress the factory burnt, orange flames licking the saw tooth roofs as clouds of black smoke rose from the conflagration. A flash of bright light from the factory and a moment later the dulled boom of an explosion.

In the courtyard several of the machine beasts had a handful of Jahshalid's men cornered while in the distance several more of the terrifying contraptions could be seen making their way steadily up the road toward the main gates.

Above the adventurers three towers loomed like silent giants mutely judging the humans at their feet.

"But which tower is Emily in?" asked Edward, "it's going to take ages to run up and down all three." Then he remembered something, the golden beetle Professor Van Klees had given him and which he wore as a belt buckle. He unclipped the beetle and checking it to be tightly wound, flicked the settings and held it out on his open hand.

He hoped he had configured the tiny device correctly. It sat a moment doing nothing, then with a shrill buzzing, shot from his hand and rose swiftly up the outside of the first tower. Reaching the window it hovered a moment then fell back, coming to rest on Edward's outstretched palm.

He flick the golden beetle over, and changed its settings, then placed it on a smooth flagstone. The beetle scurried about leaving a trail of ink which quickly built up into an image of the room at the top of the tower. From the illustration the room appeared empty.

Edward wound the beetle again and released it up the second tower. Again the clockwork insect performed its task and returned to Edward. This time the image showed a female figure sitting quietly at a table, her head held in her hands.

"Looks good to me," said Captain Legate.

"I am sure that is Emily," said Carmine looking at the ink on stone drawing.

"Carmine, Rob and I will ascend," declared Edward, "the rest of you stay and guard the exit," with that he rushed up the tower stairs, Lady Carmine and Rob close at his heels.

The tower, the tallest of the three stood a good two hundred feet high, its stairs like stone teeth set into the interior wall leaving a plunging void in the centre which, as they climbed, became ever deeper. The initial pace of two steps at a time soon became one, and their running became a slog of one foot after the next. They past a sloted window every second turn of the stairs from which they could hear, but not see, the fighting in the courtyard.

Eventually they came to the top of the stairs and entered a sparingly furnished room containing only a rough table and two benches. A spilt cup and a half eaten loaf testified to the fact that the guards had left their posts in a hurry.

At the far end of the room an oddly out of place, yet elegant, staircase led to a barred door. The three rushed across the room and up the staircase. With a mighty heave Rob drew back the bolt and flung the door open.

The girl at the table looked up in surprise as the three burst into her chamber. The creamy white skin of her face, her ruby red lips, all framed by locks of golden hair which fell in graceful curves across her shoulders and down to her waist. She wore a simple white wedding dress which left her shoulders bare and flowed down to the floor. She rose quickly, a resolute look on her face, showing neither fear nor welcome.

Carmine stepped towards her and she back away. "Emily, it is me, Lady Carmine," said Carmine.

Lady Emily looked at the figure before her, the taught fighter in tight leather, her face smudged with soot and brick dust and half hidden under a hood.

"Cami? Is that really you?" asked Lady Emily, even in her fright, her voice as soft and sweet as honey.

Carmine threw back her hood and took her friends hands in hers, "Yes, yes, it is I, you do remember me?"

"Cami, oh Cami," cried Lady Emily, "it is you."

"We have come to rescue you, to take you back to England," said Carmine, "We must hurry," she led Emily to the door.

The four began their decent back down the tower, Edward leading the way with Rob bringing up the rear. As they neared the bottom of the tower they heard shouting on the battlements. Reaching the base of the tower Edward looked out. The adventurers were deep in conflict with a squad of East India Company troops who were attempting to take back the battlements.

Only able to fight three a breast, the Captain, Chesterton and Ra Chet were able to hold them off, but only just, Ra Chet's movements were beginning to show the signs of a loosely wound spring.

"We must retreat back the way we came," shouted Edward, "fall back, fall back," and while Rob ran to aid the others in covering their retreat, Edward led Carmine and Emily back the way they had come along the battlements. As they approached the stairs several figures came running up, blocking their way.

It was the remaining Imperial Troops reinforced with East India Company soldiers led by Darkmere, his face clouded with rage and hatred.

"I have had quite enough of you insignificant maggots," spewed Darkmere, "This ends here, now, with your deaths."

He held his hand out to Lady Emily, "Come my dearest, step away from these villains and come to my side for we will be wed before the night is done."

But Lady Emily shook her head, "I will not come with you Vilners. Once you fooled me with your charm and guile, but now I see you for what you really are, a spoilt child who will resort to the lowest tricks to get what he want, no matter what the price."

"Very well Emily, I would have made you a Queen, you would have had a thousand servants and a thousand slaves to rule over, but I see now, I made a mistake in thinking you could ever love me, so have it your way, die here with this scum you call friends."

"I would rather die here with them, than live even one second by your side Vilners."

"Enough," screamed the enraged Darkmere, "Kill them, kill them all."

"Quick, a sword," cried Lady Emily as the soldiers advanced. Carmine produced a second deadly knife and tossed it to Lady Emily who first used it to cut her dress short and slit it up the side for greater freedom of movement, then took a fighting stance.

"And you said fencing lessons were for boys Cami," Lady Emily called out, "now look at you," she laughed as Carmine swept a low kick at the nearest soldier felling him with a boot toe to the ankle bone and in an instant had slit his throat with her blade.

"I see you let your minions fight for you Darkmere," taunted Edward, as he saw the miserable Lord taking cover behind his men. "I see you will never fight your own battles, you are a coward and a rat Sir."

"I'm no such thing," cried Darkmere, pushing one of his own soldiers out the way in his eagerness to get at the Pretender.

Darkmere brought his sword to bare on Edward who threw himself to one side remembering the single shot it was capable off. The lead ball screamed passed his ear and he jumped back to his feet.

"Was that your best shot Darkmere?" said Edward as they crossed swords.

"I graduated top of my fencing class at Cambridge," boasted Darkmere, "what can you have possibly learnt scrabbling around in the factory dirt?" their blades clashed.

There was no doubting Darkmere's proficiency with a sword, his thrusts were powerful and accurate, his stance and foot work graceful and his control excellent. Against Edward's strong but raw skill he clearly had the upper hand.

"I suppose no one would have married you if you had just asked," taunted Edward in the hope of enraging him as he fended of blow after blow from Darkmere's blade.

"Your insults do not bother me peasant, I have the satisfaction of knowing your bloody brains will be spilt over these stones before we are done today."

"I would splash your brains too, if you had any," replied Edward, "in their stead I shall splatter your snot filled head."

Now Edward could feel the red hot rage building up inside Darkmere as his blows became wildly intense, knocking Edward to the ground.

"It will be a fittingly ignoble end for you to die on a peasant's blade," Edward said fending off the follow-through blow.

"That will never happen," screamed Vilner's raising his sword to strike a final deadly blow against his prone adversary. In doing so he left himself wide open and raising his sword Edward fired its single shot.

The blood drained from Darkmere's face as he staggered back a dark red stain growing on his chest. His sword fell on the stones with a clatter as he fell to his knees.

Suddenly the air around them was filled with an eerie whistling sound, chips of stone danced up in the air like water from a wet road during a summer storm. The strange occurrence stopped as suddenly as it had started and a deep shadow fell across the battlements.

Almost all the soldiers on the battlements had been cut down in a hail of lead which had come from the gauss guns mounted on the Valiant's gantry. Further to the east the Gallant flying the colours of the White Rose swung into view, its two five foot cannons fired shells down into the courtyard, smashing the metal monsters which raged below.

Looking up Edward saw Lord Percy, his arm in a sling, waiving down from the gantry.

Captain Legate, Rob and Chesterton finished off the last few soldiers with their blades as ladders and a winch were lowered from the Valiant and the adventurers grabbed on and climbed aboard. The gauss guns fired again covering their escape and the guns of the Gallant continued to pound the ground below until not a single metal beast moved.

With a serene certainty the two airships turned in the air and sailed gracefully away toward the rising moon which hung large and silver in the cloudless black blue sky.
Chapter 28 – The New League
"My it is good to see you," cried Edward, when Lord Percy had finished hugging his sister. "But what are you doing here?"

"When I heard you were headed for the Fortress of Eternal Shadow I couldn't just let you go without backup, so soon as I was able, I persuaded Captain Echart to let me bring the Valiant and the Gallant to provide support. We came as quickly as we could, but it looks like we have missed most of the action."

"You came in the nick of time I think. Darkmere's soldiers were beginning to get the better of us, poor Ra Chet is quite unwound, and I'm sure Jahshalid and his men will thank you for ridding them of the metal monsters," said Edward.

"You must be tired. We head for the Countess of Wetherby and are due to dock with her in a few hours time, in the Bay of Bengal," Percy informed him.

"Excellent," replied Edward, "and from there we can on to Apethorpe Manor and some well earned rest I hope."

The two airships arrived at the Countess of Wetherby without incident and the adventurers spent the next few days relaxing and recovering aboard the gargantuan aerostat. Several hours south of Ireland they transferred back to the Valiant for the final leg of the journey.

The day they returned to Apethrope was as bright as the day on which Edward had first seen the austere yet regal manor. The grass had grown a little longer since his last visit, the hedges and flowerbeds, while untended, were in full bloom, creating a riot of colour, echoed by the lawns which held a scattering of cornflowers, poppies and buttercups.

Edward flanked by Lady Carmine and Lady Emily led the adventures towards the house.

"It is good to be home again," said Carmine, "It will feel strange without Daddy here, though the house will be filled with people for the first time in a long while. I should think it needs a good cleaning after all this time."

She was right. Clouds of dust hung in the still stale air.

"Well lets to making this house seem like a home again," announced Edward, "What needs doing?"

Everyone started enthusiastically rushing about, opening curtains, pulling the covers of the furniture, and generally making a bigger mess. It didn't take Lady Emily long to bring them to order as the only one with any idea of how to run a large household she began portioning out chores. She sent her brother and Ra Chet to tend the gardens, Merryman and Murgatroyd went to fire up the house boilers and get the engine running. Soon they had the vacuum system pumping away. Edward and Rob found themselves vacumizing the rooms with special hoses which connected to hidden vents in the walls and which magically sucked all the dust away.

With windows thrown open and curtains drawn, fresh air and sunlight poured into the house. Chesterton fired up the cooking range in the kitchens and soon had plenty of hot tea ready and a fine stew bubbling away.

Lady Carmine and Lady Emily collected all the linens and put them to wash in large tubs powered by the house engine.

Very quickly the house acquired a new air, one of a home being lived in, filled with light and air and the happy chatter and laughter of people. That evening they all sat down round the kitchen table and partook of Chesterton's excellent stew.

"I want you to know," Carmine said to Edward, after swallowing a mouthful of rich gravy and freshly baked bread, "That this is as much your home as mine. I know you don't have anywhere else to go, and I would be pleased if you would treat Apethorpe manor as your home," she offered.

"That would be nice," replied Edward, "I don't ever remember having a home before, but what about Rob, he has no home since the cave was burnt out."

"He is very welcome to stay here as well," she replied. "Have you thought more about the League? You know everyone here is prepared to follow you wherever you would lead. Perhaps you should reform the League as my father wished."

"You are right. Our recent adventure will have aroused the interest of the Emperor and the Guardians of the One Tree, we need to look out for each other." replied Edward. "Yes, let us make it official, I shall call the first meeting of the reformed League of the White Rose."

"Let us to the secret rooms," said Lady Carmine.

They followed her to her father's old study, which was just as they had left it a few weeks earlier.

Edward, Rob, Carmine and Ra Chet activated the secret code which opened the lair beneath the study and they descended the stone steps filing into the meeting chamber.

"Firstly," said Carmine, "I want to call a formal meeting of the new League of the White Rose, and, assuming he is willing, to accept Edward York as the head of the League."

Edward assented to this then each took a place at the table. Once they were all settled Edward looked around at them.

"I suppose I should say a few words at this point," he said. "Welcome friends to the inaugural meeting of the League of the White Rose. As you know the League was previously under the leadership of Victor II, Richard York, my father, now it is our turn. I am aware that several people here had dealings with the old League and I hope we can live up to the level they set."

"Our numbers are few and our enemies many, we face the Emperor in Parentis, the so called Victor III, my Uncle, on the one hand and on the other, the mysterious Guardians of the One Tree, the Brotherhood of the Light."

"But we have fought side-by-side, we have crossed half the world together and returned home safely. We have made powerful allies of our own and can rely, to some extent, on support from my Uncle the Duke of Northumberland."

"However, for now we must remain hidden, secret, no one outside this room must know of the League or who is in it. While we here accept I am indeed the Infante, I would ask that outside these four walls you call me Mr. Black."

Edward stood and held his sword across the table, "To complete the formalities of the League, I pronounce you all Knights of the League of the White Rose and as Infante I wish to bestow particular honours on Robert Badger and Chesterton, if you would both be so good as to come over here."

The two left their seats an approached. Edward drew his sword and instructed Rob to kneel.

"I dub thee Sir Roger Badger, Knight of the League of the White Rose, arise Sir Roger," Roger stood, bowed and stepped back.

"Chesterton, you know I don't know your first name, do you have one?" asked Edward as the man knelt.

For the first and probably only time, Chesterton seemed a little embarrassed.

"It is Clarence, your Highness," he replied solemnly.

"I dub thee Sir Clarence Chesterton, Knight of the League of the White Rose, arise Sir Clarence."

"We should celebrate our newly founded allegiance," said Sir Robert.

"Indeed we should," agreed Captain Legate. At that moment a sound rang out through the Manor.

"We have visitors," said Carmine recognising the door's bell.

They rushed up stairs to see who it might be. Robert opened the door while the rest waited. He flung the door wide and stepped back allowing the Duke and Duchess of Bath to enter. Lady Emily rushed forward into her mother's arms.

"Your safe, we were so worried," the Duchess sobbed with joy.

A third figure entered behind the Baths, a lone female figure who looked tentatively around the hall.

"Anna," cried Edward recognising his old friend and rushing across the room took her up in his arms and gave her such a hug. "But how is it you are here?" he asked.

"You have Lady Carmine to thank," said the Duke of Bath. "She suggested Mildred, er, um, that is the Duchess, persuade the Blatchington-smythes to let Anna into her service, and now we have brought her here to you, it really is the least we could do."

"It seems we have a lot to celebrate," cried Edward. "Let us have music and dancing and wine."


To everyone's surprise Captain Legate was an entertaining pianist. He flung of the dust cover from the grand piano in the ballroom and was soon bashing out merry tunes. Chesterton produced bottles of champagne from the Manor's cellars and as the Captain began to tire of playing Mr. Murgatroyd found a gramophone and a collection of musical recordings which he played through the large horn on top of the gramophone, while Ra Chet, who could not dance, kept the music box adequately wound.

As the evening wore on, music floated through the Manor as it had not done so for a long time, Edward found himself on the ballroom terrace enjoying the cool evening air.

"Cigar?" said the Duke of Bath offering him a fat sweet smelling roll of tobacco.

"You know boy," he continued once they had lit their smokes, "if the rumours of the Infante's return are true, there are many who would rally to his cause. Victor the III has not endeared himself to the people or the aristocracy, there are many looking, hoping, for a change, many who feel our world could be so much a better place, the situation with the Orphanages and workhouses, conditions in the factories, the constant hostilities with our European neighbours, the terror of the Emperor's Secret Police, the dissenting voices that disappear in the night, oh yes my boy, there are many reasons for change in these times, but people are fearful, they will not rise without a strong leader to follow, they will not risk their own necks lightly."

"If such a person existed, and they were able to gain the confidence of the people, then they would be able to overthrow the Emperor and take their rightful place. Oh yes, these are interesting times my boy, interesting, and dangerous." The duke looked long into Edward's eye.

"Edward, Edward," Carmine cried running lightly across the terrace, "we need you inside," she took hold of his arm, "If I may Lord Trafford?" with that she pulled Edward back to the ballroom and thrust a glass in his hand.

"A toast, a toast," went up the cry from all around.

Using a chair Edward stepped up on the table. Holding out one hand to quieten the room he raised his glass above his head with the other.

"I propose a toast to us all, to the fortune of our meeting and to our new enterprise... I propose a toast to the League of the White Rose."
